Article

An Innovative Differentiated Creative Search Based on
Collaborative Development and Population Evaluation
Xinyu Cai 1           and Chaoyong Zhang 2, *

                                         1   College of Business, Jiaxing University, Jiaxing 314001, China; caixinyu@zjxu.edu.cn
                                         2   School of Civil Engineering and Architecture, Jiaxing Nanhu University, Jiaxing 314000, China
                                         *   Correspondence: 220028@jxnhu.edu.cn


                                         Abstract: In real-world applications, many complex problems can be formulated as mathe-
                                         matical optimization challenges, and efficiently solving these problems is critical. Meta-
                                         heuristic algorithms have proven highly effective in addressing a wide range of engineering
                                         issues. The differentiated creative search is a recently proposed evolution-based meta-
                                         heuristic algorithm with certain advantages. However, it also has limitations, including
                                         weakened population diversity, reduced search efficiency, and hindrance of comprehensive
                                         exploration of the solution space. To address the shortcomings of the DCS algorithm,
                                         this paper proposes a multi-strategy differentiated creative search (MSDCS) based on
                                         the collaborative development mechanism and population evaluation strategy. First, this
                                         paper proposes a collaborative development mechanism that organically integrates the
                                         estimation distribution algorithm and DCS to compensate for the shortcomings of the DCS
                                         algorithm’s insufficient exploration ability and its tendency to fall into local optimums
                                         through the guiding effect of dominant populations, and to improve the quality of the DCS
                                         algorithm’s search efficiency and solution at the same time. Secondly, a new population
                                         evaluation strategy is proposed to realize the coordinated transition between exploitation
                                         and exploration through the comprehensive evaluation of fitness and distance. Finally,
                                         a linear population size reduction strategy is incorporated into DCS, which significantly
                                         improves the overall performance of the algorithm by maintaining a large population size
                                         at the initial stage to enhance the exploration capability and extensive search of the solution
Academic Editors: Heming Jia and         space, and then gradually decreasing the population size at the later stage to enhance the
Gang Hu                                  exploitation capability. A series of validations was conducted on the CEC2018 test set, and
Received: 2 April 2025                   the experimental results were analyzed using the Friedman test and Wilcoxon rank sum
Revised: 22 April 2025                   test. The results show the superior performance of MSDCS in terms of convergence speed,
Accepted: 22 April 2025                  stability, and global optimization. In addition, MSDCS is successfully applied to several
Published: 23 April 2025                 engineering constrained optimization problems. In all cases, MSDCS outperforms the basic
Citation: Cai, X.; Zhang, C. An          DCS algorithm with fast convergence and strong robustness, emphasizing its superior
Innovative Differentiated Creative       efficacy in practical applications.
Search Based on Collaborative
Development and Population
                                         Keywords: differentiated creative search; metaheuristic algorithm; engineering optimization
Evaluation. Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
                                         problems; collaborative development mechanism; linear population size reduction
biomimetics10050260

Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
                                         1. Introduction
distributed under the terms and               With the rapid advancement of society, academic research and engineering applica-
conditions of the Creative Commons       tions are increasingly confronted with complex optimization problems [1,2]. Solving an
Attribution (CC BY) license
                                         optimization problem is the process of determining the optimal solution from among many
(https://creativecommons.org/
                                         feasible solutions in a given problem space [3]. Optimization problems are centered on
licenses/by/4.0/).




Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                https://doi.org/10.3390/biomimetics10050260
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                              2 of 41



                            maximizing or minimizing one or more dimensional objective functions while satisfying a
                            set of constraints. Such problems are widespread in fields such as engineering, medicine,
                            economics, and agriculture [4]. However, real-world optimization problems are often
                            extremely complicated due to complex properties such as multivariate, multi-objective,
                            multi-constraint, non-linear, multi-peaked, and non-differentiable [5]. Mathematically,
                            many optimization problems are classified as NP-hard, which implies that the exact solu-
                            tion is computationally resource-intensive and usually cannot be achieved in polynomial
                            time [6,7]. Optimization methods are usually divided into two main categories: determin-
                            istic and stochastic algorithms. Deterministic algorithms determine the globally optimal
                            solution using rigorous mathematical techniques such as linear programming, nonlinear
                            programming, branch-and-bound, and dynamic programming [8]. They always produce
                            the same output for a given input and rigorously search for an exact solution to the prob-
                            lem. Although such algorithms often produce optimal solutions, they are computationally
                            demanding, especially when applied to large datasets, and often require longer execution
                            times. In addition, they rely on ideal problem conditions such as linearity, convexity, and
                            differentiability [9]. When dealing with non-differentiable objective functions or problems
                            with multiple local optima, deterministic algorithms tend to fall into local optimality and
                            thus exhibit limited adaptability [10]. Given the increasingly complex and diverse problem
                            space, there is an urgent need for more efficient, stable, and highly portable algorithms to
                            overcome these challenges. Meta-heuristic algorithms are stochastic algorithms. Unlike tra-
                            ditional optimization methods, metaheuristic algorithms require no precise mathematical
                            properties, such as gradient information. Instead, they utilize probabilistic strategies to iter-
                            atively explore and exploit the problem space, incrementally improving the quality of the
                            solution. By balancing global exploration (extensive search in the solution space) with local
                            exploitation (fine-tuning of promising solutions), these algorithms effectively mitigate the
                            risk of premature convergence to suboptimal solutions [11]. In addition, the non-derivative
                            or non-gradient character of metaheuristic algorithms allows these algorithms to be quickly
                            applied to optimization problems in a variety of complex scenarios without paying atten-
                            tion to the specific structure of the problem [12]. They can obtain near-optimal solutions
                            while reducing computational resource requirements, making them suitable for complex
                            real-world optimization problems such as path planning [13,14], wireless sensor network
                            coverage [15,16], image segmentation [17,18], and feature selection [19,20]. By drawing
                            inspiration from nature and social systems, metaheuristic algorithms provide diverse and
                            flexible solutions to complex optimization problems.
                                  Metaheuristic algorithms represent a class of stochastic optimization techniques in-
                            spired by natural phenomena, physical laws, or human behavior. Metaheuristic algorithms
                            can be categorized into four primary groups based on their inspiration (as shown in
                            Figure 1). Evolution-based algorithms: These algorithms are inspired by the principles of
                            natural evolution, including selection, mutation, and crossover. These algorithms mimic
                            the process of natural selection, where the fittest individuals are selected to create the
                            next generation. Examples include the Genetic Algorithm (GA) [21], Evolutionary Strat-
                            egy (ES) [22], Differential Evolution (DE) [23], Covariance Matrix Adaptive Evolutionary
                            Strategy (CMA-ES) [24], Human Evolutionary Optimization Algorithm (HEOA) [25], and
                            Chaotic Evolution Optimization (CEO) [26]. Physics-based algorithms: these draw on
                            the laws of physics or chemical reaction mechanisms, including Multi-Verse Optimizer
                            (MVO) [27], Fick’s Law Algorithm (FLA) [28], Snow Ablation Optimization (SAO) [29],
                            Polar Lights Optimizer (PLO) [30], Special Relativity Search (SRS) [31], Mirage Search Opti-
                            mization (MSO) [32], and Kepler Optimization Algorithm (KOA) [33]. The third category
                            comprises mathematical-based algorithms, which are inspired by mathematical theories,
                            functions, and formulas, which have demonstrated significant promise in enhancing the
Biomimetics 2025, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                              3 of 37


Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                             3 of 41

                                        theories, functions, and formulas, which have demonstrated significant promise in en-
                                        hancing the computing efficacy of optimization approaches. One of the noteworthy meth-
                                        computing efficacy of optimization approaches. One of the noteworthy methods in this cat-
                                        ods in this category is the Sine Cosine Algorithm (SCA) [34], which applies the concept of
                                        egory is the Sine Cosine Algorithm (SCA) [34], which applies the concept of trigonometric
                                        trigonometric functions to create an algorithmic model. Arithmetic Optimization Algo-
                                        functions to create an algorithmic model. Arithmetic Optimization Algorithm (AOA) [35],
                                        rithm (AOA) [35], Quasi-random Fractal Search (QRFS) [36], Weighted Average Algo-
                                        Quasi-random Fractal Search (QRFS) [36], Weighted Average Algorithm (WAA) [37], Trian-
                                        rithm (WAA) [37], Triangulation Topology Aggregation Optimizer (TTAO) [38], and Ex-
                                        gulation Topology Aggregation Optimizer (TTAO) [38], and Exponential-Trigonometric
                                        ponential-Trigonometric Optimization Algorithm (ETOA) [39] are other instances in this
                                        Optimization Algorithm (ETOA) [39] are other instances in this category. Swarm-based
                                        category. Swarm-based algorithms focus on group collaboration and information ex-
                                        algorithms focus on group collaboration and information exchange to find global optima,
                                        change to find global optima, simulating the collective social behavior of foraging, repro-
                                        simulating the collective social behavior of foraging, reproduction, and avoidance of natural
                                        duction, and avoidance of natural enemies in groups of organisms. Particle Swarm Opti-
                                        enemies in groups of organisms. Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) [40] is one of the
                                        mization (PSO) [40] is one of the classical instances in which the foraging behavioral pat-
                                        classical instances in which the foraging behavioral patterns of bird flocks are simulated to
                                        terns of bird flocks are simulated to locate the ideal solution. Other prominent algorithms
                                        locate the ideal solution. Other prominent algorithms in this category comprise Ant Colony
                                        in this category comprise Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) [41], Grey Wolf Optimizer
                                        Optimization (ACO) [41], Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO) [42], Artificial Lemming Algorithm
                                        (GWO) [42], Artificial Lemming Algorithm (ALA) [43], Crayfish Optimization Algorithm
                                        (ALA) [43], Crayfish Optimization Algorithm (COA) [44], Dwarf Mongoose Optimization
                                        (COA) [44], Dwarf Mongoose Optimization (DMO) [45], Sled Dog Optimizer (SDO) [46],
                                        (DMO) [45], Sled Dog Optimizer (SDO) [46], Slime Mould Algorithm (SMA) [47], Tuna
                                        Slime Mould Algorithm (SMA) [47], Tuna Swarm Optimization (TSO) [48], Genghis Khan
                                        Swarm Optimization (TSO) [48], Genghis Khan Shark Optimizer (GKSO) [49], Prairie
                                        Shark Optimizer (GKSO)[49], Prairie Dog Optimization Algorithm (PDOA) [50], and Sec-
                                        Dog Optimization Algorithm (PDOA) [50], and Secretary Bird Optimization Algorithm
                                        retary Bird Optimization Algorithm (SBOA) [51].
                                        (SBOA) [51].


                                        metaheuristic algorithms

                   Mathematically-based             Evolutionary-based                                                Physics-based Algorithms
                                                                                 Swarm-based Algorithms
                       Algorithms                      Algorithms




                                                                                  Particle Swarm Optimization
                  Sine Cosine Algorithm (SCA)      Genetic Algorithms (GA)          Simulated   Annealing
                                                                                             (PSO)
                                                                                                                   Multi-Verse Optimizer (MVO)




                    Arithmetic Optimization                                          Chemical Reaction
                                                  Differential Evolution (DE)    Ant Colony Optimization (ACO)     Fick’s Law Algorithm (FLA)
                       Algorithm (AOA)                                                 Optimization



                                                 Covariance Matrix Adaptive
                  Quasi-random Fractal Search                                                                        Snow Ablation Optimizer
                                                 Evolutionary Strategy (CMA-      Grey Wolf Optimizer
                                                                                  Multi-Verse         (GWO)
                                                                                                Optimizer
                            (QRFS)                                                                                           (SAO)
                                                             ES)



                                                    Human Evolutionary
                  Weighted Average Algorithm                                       Gravitational
                                                                                  Artificial Lemming Search
                                                                                                     Algorithm
                                                   Optimization Algorithm                                          Polar Lights Optimizer (PLO)
                            (WAA)                                                              (ALA)
                                                                                           Algorithm
                                                          (HEOA)



                    Triangulation Topology
                                                      Chaotic Evolution          Crayfish Optimization Algorithm
                    Aggregation Optimizer
                                                     Optimization (CEO)
                                                                                  Sine Cosine(COA)
                                                                                                  Algorithm        Special Relativity Search (SRS)
                           (TTAO)



                   Exponential-Trigonometric
                                                                                  Dwarf Mongoose Optimization       Mirage Search Optimization
                    Optimization Algorithm        Evolutionary Strategies (ES)
                                                                                           (DMO)                              (MSO)
                           (ETOA)



                                                                                                                        Kepler Optimization
                                                                                    Sled Dog Optimizer (SDO)             Algorithm (KOA)




                                        Figure 1.
                                        Figure 1. Classification
                                                  Classification of
                                                                 of metaheuristic
                                                                    metaheuristic algorithm.
                                                                                  algorithm.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                              4 of 41



                                  Their widespread success across various domains reinforces their standing as a supe-
                            rior alternative to traditional optimization methods. Despite significant progress in various
                            areas, metaheuristic algorithms have encountered challenges and problems. First, meta-
                            heuristic algorithms can obtain better solutions, but it is difficult to obtain optimal solutions.
                            Second, metaheuristic algorithms are often difficult to balance between exploitation and
                            exploration, which is related to the adaptive nature of their parameters or the focus of the
                            search strategy. The population will homogenize to a single position at some moment,
                            which causes the algorithm to easily fall into a local optimum. Notably, the no free lunch
                            theorem clearly states that no single algorithm can outperform all other algorithms on
                            all possible optimization problems [52]. In other words, optimization algorithms may
                            perform well on some problems but poorly on others. This forces researchers to design or
                            improve efficient algorithms for specific optimization problems with the aim of providing
                            superior solutions.
                                  Differentiated Creative Search (DCS) is an evolution-based meta-heuristic algorithm
                            proposed by Duankhan et al. in 2024 [53]. DCS utilizes differential knowledge acquisition
                            and creative realism to model the algorithm and proposes two different search strategies,
                            divergent and convergent thinking, to implement the problem solution. Although DCS
                            has shown great potential as a metaheuristic algorithm, limitations such as insufficient
                            population diversity, unbalanced exploitation and exploration, and weak global search
                            capability hinder its performance in complex optimization scenarios. To address these
                            challenges, several researchers have systematically improved the algorithm. Chermite et al.
                            designed a hybrid DCS algorithm that utilizes the Newton Raphson method to further
                            improve the quality of the solution and achieve parameter extraction for PV models [54].
                            Zhang et al. adopted a guided learning strategy to balance the exploitation and exploration
                            of DCS and applied the improved DCS algorithm to optimize the support vector machine
                            model parameters [55]. Liu et al. enhanced the convergence accuracy and the ability to get
                            rid of local optimums by integrating multiple improvement strategies in DCS and solved
                            the agricultural UAV path planning problem [56].
                                  The above studies have enhanced the efficiency of DCS through different methods.
                            However, the inability of DCS to face complex optimization problems is something that
                            exists objectively. Meanwhile, the theory of no free lunch states that a great algorithm may
                            perform well in solving a specific type of optimization problem but may be ineffective
                            for other types of problems. Considering the above factors, this paper proposes a new
                            variant of DCS called Multi-Strategy Differentiated Creative Search (MSDCS). MSDCS
                            combines three improvement techniques to realize a leap in performance. First, this paper
                            proposes a collaborative development mechanism to organically integrate the estimation
                            distribution algorithm and DCS. The defects of the DCS algorithm, including its insufficient
                            exploration ability and the fact that it is easy for it to fall into local optimization, are
                            compensated for by the guiding effect of advantageous populations. At the same time,
                            it improves the search efficiency and the quality of the DCS algorithm. Secondly, a new
                            population evaluation strategy is proposed to realize the coordinated transition between
                            exploitation and exploration through the comprehensive evaluation of fitness and distance.
                            Finally, a linear population size reduction strategy is integrated into DCS, which enhances
                            the exploration capability and searches the solution space extensively by maintaining a
                            large population size at the initial stage. At a later stage, the population size is gradually
                            reduced to enhance the exploitation capability and improve the accuracy and quality of the
                            solution. Meanwhile, the search process is optimized to significantly improve the overall
                            performance of the algorithm. The proposed MSDCS is comprehensively examined on the
                            CEC2018 benchmark test functions and thoroughly compared with different classes of basic
                            and improved algorithms. Statistical tests, including Friedman’s test and the Wilcoxon rank
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                               5 of 41



                            sum test, are performed to analyze the differences between MSDCS and other compared
                            algorithms. Engineering constrained optimization problems confirm the ability of MSDCS
                            to solve realistic optimization problems. The contributions of this paper are as follows:
                            (1)   Proposing a DCS variant, MSDCS, that combines three improved techniques.
                            (2)   Comprehensively examining the performance of MSDCS using the CEC2018 test suite
                                  and confirming its superiority through the Friedman test and the Wilcoxon value
                                  sum test.
                            (3)   Applying MSDCS successfully to the wireless sensor network coverage problem and
                                  engineering constrained optimization problems, showing its adaptability in facing
                                  real-world problems.
                                  The structure of this article is as follows: Section 2 delves into the architecture and
                            specifics of the DCS algorithm. The third chapter is the construction of the theoretical frame-
                            work, which proposes three improvement strategies, including a collaborative development
                            mechanism, a population evaluation strategy, and a linear population size reduction strat-
                            egy. Meanwhile, Section 3 provides an in-depth analysis of the algorithmic complexity of
                            MSDCS, including both time complexity and space complexity. Section 4 presents ablation
                            experiments on MSDCS, validating the soundness of its design by testing it on CEC2018
                            test functions. Furthermore, Section 4 employs a comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of
                            the MSDCS algorithm alongside nine competitive algorithms, utilizing the 10-dimensional,
                            30-dimensional, 50-dimensional, and 100-dimensional CEC-2017 benchmark functions,
                            with a detailed analysis of the experimental results. Section 5 applies the algorithm to
                            engineering-constrained optimization problems. Finally, Section 6 summarizes the entire
                            work, analyzes the potential limitations of the MSDCS algorithm, and outlines future
                            research directions.

                            2. Differentiated Creative Search
                                 DCS starts the search from a set of randomly generated solution sets and deepens
                            the search through three different update strategies as well as differentiated knowledge
                            acquisition strategies. When the stopping criteria are satisfied, DCS ends the search and
                            outputs the optimal solution. The specific structure of DCS is represented as follows.

                            2.1. Initialization
                                 The original DCS algorithm begins by generating a random population with a uniform
                            distribution to initiate the optimization process. The initial population can be determined
                            using the following equation.
                                                                       
                                              Xi,j = Lb j + Ub j − Lb j × U, i = 1, 2, . . . , N; j = 1, 2, . . . , D      (1)

                            where Xi,j denotes the jth dimensional position of the ith individual; U is a randomly gener-
                            ated number within the range [0, 1]. Ub j and Lb j represent the minimum and maximum
                            bounds of the problem, respectively. N is the total number of whole individuals. Unlike
                            other metaheuristic algorithms, DCS evaluates all individuals after initialization and ranks
                            them based on their fitness. In this paper, we take the minimization problem as an example,
                            where individuals with smaller fitness are ranked higher.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                6 of 41



                            2.2. Differentiated Knowledge Acquisition
                                In the differentiated knowledge-acquisition phase, DCS will calculate the knowledge
                            acquisition rate ηit at the tth iteration for each individual. The ηit affects the knowledge
                            uptake of each individual in different dimensions, represented as follows.
                                                                                         (                    !
                                                            1                                1, i f U < ϑit
                                                      ηit =      round U × ϑit
                                                                                 
                                                                                     +                                      (2)
                                                            2                                0, i f U ≥ ϑit

                            where round(·) denotes rounding the given value to the nearest integer. ϑit is a coefficient
                            that describes an individual’s knowledge deficit and can be represented as follows, with
                            the higher-ranked individual having a smaller ϑit .
                                                                                         q
                                                                ϑit = 0.25 + 0.55 ×          Rit /N                         (3)

                            where Rit is ranking of the ith individual at the tth iteration. After obtaining the knowl-
                            edge acquisition rate of each individual, the following equation calculates whether each
                            individual learns the corresponding dimension or not.
                                                                    (
                                                                        vi,j , i f U < ηit ∥ j = jrand
                                                       Xnewi,j =                                                            (4)
                                                                        Xi,j , otherwise

                                                                   jrand = randint(1, D )                                   (5)

                            where vi,j is the jth dimensional position of the trial vector for each individual after updating
                            at the tth iteration. Xnewi,j is the child individual of each individual after absorbing the
                            knowledge. jrand is an integer randomly chosen from 1 to D and generated once for
                            each iteration.

                            2.3. Creative Realism
                                 DCS divides the population into three segments: a high-level group with good fitness,
                            a medium level general group with intermediate fitness, and the least fit individual. The
                            high-level group contains the top-ranked Ns individuals. Creative realism consists of
                            divergent thinking for the high-level group and convergent thinking for the medium-level
                            group. For the normal group, DCS obtains the trial vector v based on the optimal individual
                            by drawing on the knowledge of two different individuals, denoted as follows.
                                                                                     
                                  vi,j = Xbest,j + λ × Xr2,j − Xi,j + ω × Xr1,j − Xi,j , i = Ns + 1, Ns + 2, . . . , N      (6)
                                                                           p           
                                                       λ = 0.1 + 0.518 × 1 − FEs/FEsmax                                     (7)

                            where Xbest,j is the jth dimensional position of the best individual in the population. Xr1,j
                            is the jth dimensional position of a randomly selected individual in the population that is
                            different from Xbest , Xr2 , and Xi . Xr2,j is the jth dimensional position of a randomly selected
                            individual from the medium level population and Xr2 ̸= Xr1 ̸= Xbest ̸= Xi . ω is a randomly
                            generated number within the range [0, 1]. FEsmax and FEs denote the maximum number
                            of function evaluations and the current number of function evaluations, respectively. For
                            high-level groups, DCS generates the experiment vectors using an updating method based
                            on the Linnik distribution, denoted as follows.

                                                         vi,j = Xr3,j + Lk(α, β), i = 1, 2, . . . , Ns                      (8)
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                    7 of 41



                            where Lk (α, β) symbolizes the Linnik distribution random number generator with control
                            parameters α and β. Xr3,j is the jth dimensional position of a randomly selected individual
                            from the whole population and Xr3 ̸= Xbest ̸= Xi . For the worst individual, DCS generates
                            the trial vector v N using the following equation.

                                                   v N = Lb + (Ub − Lb) × rand(1, D ), i f rand < pc                            (9)

                            where v N denotes the trial vector of the N th individual, which is also the trial vector of the
                            worst individual. pc is a constant with a value of 0.5.

                            2.4. Retrospective Assessment
                                  After generating the trial vectors and learning based on the knowledge acquisition
                            rate, the DCS evaluates the learned individuals and selects them according to the following
                            equation.                         (
                                                                 Xnew, i f F ( Xnew) ≤ F Xit
                                                                                             
                                                        t +1
                                                      Xi =                                                          (10)
                                                                 Xit , otherwise

                            where F ( Xnew) and F Xit are fitness values of Xnew and Xit , respectively.
                                                       


                            3. Proposed Multi-Strategy Differentiated Creative Search
                                  The DCS algorithm suffers from some shortcomings, limiting its search efficiency. The
                            effective information of the dominant group is ignored throughout the search process,
                            which leads to the evolutionary direction of the population being disordered. In addition,
                            the grouping of DCS is based on the magnitude of fitness, which ignores the factor of
                            distance between different individuals. Fixed population size cannot expand the search in
                            the early stage and narrow the range in the later stage, which weakens the performance of
                            DCS. To overcome these limitations, this paper proposes a multi-strategy DCS algorithm
                            that incorporates three improvement strategies. In this section, the three improvement
                            strategies are described in detail sequentially, accompanied by pseudo-code and a flow
                            chart. The time complexity and space complexity of MSDCS are also demonstrated in
                            this section.

                            3.1. Population Evaluation Strategy (PES)
                                 The DCS divides the population into three segments based on the fitness ordering
                            and uses this to calculate the knowledge acquisition rate of different individuals. However,
                            DCS relies only on fitness for grouping and ignores the distance information between
                            individuals, making it difficult to maintain population diversity. In order to enrich the
                            population diversity and promote the wide distribution of populations, this paper proposes
                            a population evaluation strategy (PES). PES can consider both fitness and distance to divide
                            populations, and the detailed steps are shown below.
                                 Step 1: Calculate the Euclidean distance between each individual and the optimal
                            individual as in Equation (11).
                                                 r
                                                                                                                       2
                                        Disi =       ( Xi,1 − Xbest,1 )2 + ( Xi,2 − Xbest,2 )2 + . . . + Xi,j − Xbest,j        (11)

                                Step 2: Calculate the score for each individual based on normalized distance and
                            normalized fitness as in Equation (12).

                                                 Scorei = σ1 × Norm( Disi ) + (1 − σ1 ) × Norm( F ( Xi ))                      (12)
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                           8 of 41



                                 Step 3: Sort each individual based on their score (minimization problem is descending).
                            The coefficient σ1 determines the extent to which fitness and distance affect the score. In
                            this work, σ1 is calculated by Equation (13).
                                                                           
                                                                FEsmax
                                                 σ1 = mod              , FEs /FEsmax × (1 − γ) + γ                    (13)
                                                                  10

                            3.2. Linear Population Size Reduction Strategy (LPSR)
                                 The size of the population affects the performance of an algorithm. At the initial
                            stage of the algorithm, a larger population size contributes to the population diversity
                            and enhances the exploration capability, enabling the algorithm to search the solution
                            space more extensively and find potential high-quality solution regions. With the gradual
                            reduction of the population size, the exploitation ability of the algorithm is enhanced, and
                            it can focus more on the promising regions to improve the accuracy and quality of the
                            solution, thus effectively balancing the exploration and exploitation ability and making
                            the algorithm converge to the global optimal solution more efficiently and stably. The
                            linear population size reduction strategy (LPSR) is a successful population size adjustment
                            strategy that has been applied in algorithms such as LSHADE. In order to improve the
                            performance of the DCS algorithm, this paper integrates the LPSR strategy into the DCS
                            algorithm. The LPSR strategy is described as follows.
                                                                                                     
                                                                      FEs
                                                 Nnew = round Nini −        × ( Nini − Nmin )                         (14)
                                                                     FEsmax

                            where Nini is the initial population size and Nmin is the final population size. When the new
                            population size Nnew is smaller than the current population size N, the population is sorted
                            according to the value of the objective function and the worst ( N − Nnew ) individuals
                            are discarded.

                            3.3. Collaborative Development Mechanism (CDM)
                                 DCS ignores the guiding effect of the dominant population throughout the search
                            process, which causes the algorithm to fall into local optima more easily, making it difficult
                            to provide high-quality solutions. In order to enhance the global search capability of the
                            DCS algorithm, this paper incorporates the estimation distribution algorithm into DCS.
                            Since the estimated distribution algorithm depends not on an individual but updates the
                            population by virtue of the information of the dominant group, this enables the EDA to have
                            a powerful exploration capability, which is lacking in the DCS algorithm. EDA algorithms
                            can be divided into three phases: selection phase, modeling phase, and generation phase.
                            In the selection phase, EDA ranks the individuals according to the size of their fitness and
                            selects the top fifty percent to form the dominant group Pd . Then, a Gaussian probability
                            distribution model based on the dominant group is established. Finally, new individuals
                            are generated based on the Gaussian probability distribution model. The mean µ and
                            the covariance matrix C of the Gaussian probability distribution model are calculated as
                            Equations (15) and (16). Equation (17) represents the approach to the new individual
                            generated by the EDA
                                                                             |P |
                                                                               d
                                                                        1
                                                                µ=          × ∑ Xi , Xi ∈ Pd                          (15)
                                                                      | Pd | i=1
                                                                  |P |
                                                                  d
                                                           1
                                                   C=          × ∑ ( Xi − µ) × ( Xi − µ)T , Xi ∈ Pd                   (16)
                                                         | Pd | i=1
                                                            Xnewi = µ + g, g ∼ G (0, C )                              (17)
 Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                   9 of 41



                                     where | Pd | is the number of dominant groups. Common integration methods include
                                     two categories. One category is to replace the original search strategy with a new one. The
                                     other category is where the two methods are randomly selected according to probability.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                     9 of 37
                                     These two types of integration methods make it difficult to utilize the existing search
                                     strategies at the same time. For this reason, this paper proposes a collaborative development
                                     mechanism (CDM) to realize the coexistence of the original and new strategies. The process
                                   process of the collaborative development mechanism is shown in Figure 2. Specifically,
                                     of the collaborative development mechanism is shown in Figure 2. Specifically, the EDA
                                   the EDA algorithm models the probability distribution using the population generated by
                                     algorithm models the probability distribution using the population generated by the
                                   the DCS algorithm and generates new individuals accordingly. The DCS utilizes a greedy
                                     DCS algorithm and generates new individuals accordingly. The DCS utilizes a greedy
                                   strategy to select the offspring individuals from the new individuals provided by itself
                                     strategy to select the offspring individuals from the new individuals provided by itself and
                                   and those generated by the EDA. The individuals used by the DCS may contain individ-
                                     those generated by the EDA. The individuals used by the DCS may contain individuals
                                   uals generated by the EDA based on the dominant population’s guidance, which allows
                                     generated by the EDA based on the dominant population’s guidance, which allows the
                                   the DCS approach to utilize the dominant population’s guidance as well. The EDA
                                     DCS approach to utilize the dominant population’s guidance as well. The EDA method
                                   method utilizes individuals who are not exclusively self-provided, which mitigates the
                                     utilizes individuals who are not exclusively self-provided, which mitigates the weakening
                                   weakening of population diversity.
                                     of population diversity.




                                  Figure
                                Figure 2. 2. Sketch
                                          Sketch  forfor collaborative
                                                       collaborative   development
                                                                     development   mechanism.
                                                                                 mechanism.
                                  3.4. The Framework of MSDCS
                                3.4. The Framework of MSDCS
                                        The MSDCS algorithm is obtained by integrating three improvement strategies into the
                                      The MSDCS algorithm is obtained by integrating three improvement strategies into
                                  basic DCS algorithm. PES is designed to sort the populations. LPSR adjusts the number of
                                the basic DCS algorithm. PES is designed to sort the populations. LPSR adjusts the number
                                of populations participating in the next iteration at the end of each iteration. CDM replen-
                                ishes the populations with high-quality individuals. To facilitate the understanding of the
                                execution steps of MSDCS, the corresponding pseudo-code is described in detail in Algo-
                                rithm 1. In addition, a flowchart depicting the MSDCS algorithm is provided in Figure 3.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                          10 of 41



                                       populations participating in the next iteration at the end of each iteration. CDM replenishes
                                       the populations with high-quality individuals. To facilitate the understanding of the execution
                                       steps of MSDCS, the corresponding pseudo-code is described in detail in Algorithm 1. In
                                       addition, a flowchart depicting the MSDCS algorithm is provided in Figure 3.

                                         Algorithm 1. Multi Strategy Differentiated Creative Search (MSDCS)
                                             1: Initialization: Xi (i = 1, 2, 3, . . ., NP), FEs = 0, FEsmax
                                             2: Evaluate the fitness values of the initial population X
               Biomimetics 2025, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW (FEs < FEsmax ) do
                                             3: while                                                                                   10 of 37

                                             4: Calculate Score of each individual using Equation (12)//PES
                                             5: Sort the population in ascending order of Score
                                                   Algorithm 1. Multi Strategy Differentiated Creative Search (MSDCS)
                                             6:        for every individual, do
                                                   1: Initialization: Xi(i = 1, 2, 3, …, NP), FEs = 0, FEsmax
                                             7:             Calculate
                                                   2: Evaluate   the fitness the    ηit and
                                                                                 values   of the ϑitinitial
                                                                                                     using    Equations
                                                                                                            population  X (2) and (3)
                                             8:    3: while Randomly select jrand using Equation (5)
                                                             (FEs  <  FEs max )  do
                                                   4: Calculate Score of each individual using Equation (12)//PES
                                             9:             if i == N
                                                   5: Sort the population in ascending order of Score
                                             10: 6:                      Update the
                                                            for every individual,        do v N using Equation (9)
                                             11: 7:           else   if i ≤ the
                                                                 Calculate      Ns ηit and ϑit using Equations (2) and (3)
                                             12: 8:              RandomlyUpdate   selectthejrandvi,jusing
                                                                                                     using Equation
                                                                                                             Equation(5) (8)
                                                   9:            if i == N
                                             13:              else
                                                   10:                        Update the v N using Equation (9)
                                             14: 11:             else ifUpdate
                                                                           i ≤ Ns       the vi,j using Equation (6)
                                             15: 12:          end if Update the vi, j using Equation (8)
                                             16: 13:               else the Xnewi using Equation (4)
                                                              Update
                                                   14:                      Update the vi , j using Equation (6)
                                             17:              FEs = Fes + 1
                                                   15:           end if
                                             18: 16: end forUpdate the Xnewi using Equation (4)
                                             19: 17: Calculate   FEs =µFesand  + 1 C using Equations (14) and (15)//CDM
                                             20:   18:       end  for
                                                        Generate Nc new individuals using Equation (16)//CDM
                                                   19:       Calculate μ and C using Equations (14) and (15)//CDM
                                             21:        FEs = Fes + N
                                                   20:       Generate N cc new individuals using Equation (16)//CDM
                                             22: 21: Calculate
                                                             FEs = Festhe+ NNnew
                                                                               c         using Equation (13)//LPSR
                                             23: 22: Shrinking
                                                             CalculateXthe  byNnew discarding         the worst
                                                                                         using Equation             solutions
                                                                                                              (13)//LPSR
                                                   23:       Shrinking X by discarding the worst solutions
                                             24: end    while
                                                   24: end while
                                             25: Return     bestbest
                                                   25: Return     individual
                                                                      individual




                                       FigureFigure
                                              3. The3. The flowchart
                                                       flowchart  ofofMSDCS.
                                                                      MSDCS.

                                               3.5. Complexity Analysis of MSDCS
                                                    In this section, we analyze the time complexity and space complexity of MSDCS.
                                               Time complexity measures the rate at which the algorithm’s execution time increases as
                                               the input size grows. It indicates the order of magnitude of the time required as the
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                           11 of 41



                            3.5. Complexity Analysis of MSDCS
                                 In this section, we analyze the time complexity and space complexity of MSDCS. Time
                            complexity measures the rate at which the algorithm’s execution time increases as the input
                            size grows. It indicates the order of magnitude of the time required as the problem size
                            expands. On the other hand, space complexity measures the rate at which the amount
                            of memory required by the algorithm grows as the input size increases, reflecting the
                            algorithm’s demand for memory resources. Both time complexity and space complexity
                            are critical metrics for evaluating the efficiency of an algorithm.
                                 For the basic DCS algorithm, the time complexity and space complexity of DCS are
                            O( N × D × T ) and O( N × D ), respectively, according to its original literature. In this
                            subsection, T denotes the number of iterations, N represents the population size, and D is
                            the dimensionality of the search space.
                                 For the proposed MSDCS, the three improved strategies do not add an initialization
                            step, so the time complexity of population initialization remains unchanged. In the whole
                            optimization process, the PES strategy does not involve population updating and fitness
                            calculation, which has no effect on the time complexity. The CDM strategy additionally
                            generates Nc individuals, and the time complexity of this part is O( Nc × D × T ). The LPSR
                            strategy ensures that the number of evaluations NL per iteration is less than N, which
                            means that the time complexity is reduced. Therefore, the time complexity of MSDCS is
                            O( Nc × D × T + NL × D × T ). The space complexity of MSDCS can be analyzed based
                            on the main data structures and variables involved in storing the information. The most
                            important variables in the algorithm are the particle position matrix X and the particle
                            fitness matrix. This matrix stores the coordinates of each particle, so its space complexity is
                            O( N × D ). Other parts of the algorithm, such as the PES and CDM, while updating the
                            individual positions, only require temporary variables to store intermediate results. These
                            operations do not contribute additional space complexity. Therefore, the extra memory
                            required for intermediate calculations does not exceed O( N × D ). In conclusion, the overall
                            space complexity of MSDCS is O( N × D ).

                            4. Numerical Experiments Using CEC 2017 Test Suite
                                  In this section, we focus on the performance of the proposed MSDCS algorithm on
                            the CEC2018 test suite with the aim of evaluating its capability in dealing with complex
                            test functions. Section 4.1 describes the CEC2018 benchmark test functions in detail and
                            provides a description of the parameters for the comparison algorithms. In addition,
                            this subsection describes the hardware and software configurations of the experimental
                            platform. Sections 4.2 and 4.3 show the results of the parameter sensitivity analysis and
                            ablation experiments, respectively, which provide insights into the effects of different
                            parameter settings and strategies on the performance of MSDCS. Finally, in Section 4.4,
                            we provide a comprehensive performance comparison analysis of MSDCS with other
                            comparative algorithms to further validate its effectiveness.

                            4.1. Experiment Setting and Performance Metrics
                                 The hardware configuration used in this experiment includes an AMD R9 7945HX,
                            2.5 Ghz CPU, 32 GB of memory, and a 4060 GPU. The software configuration consists of
                            the Windows 11 operating system and MATLAB 2023a.
                                 To test the performance of MSDCS, the IEEE CEC 2018 test suite is selected; it has
                            29 test functions, in which F1 is an unimodal function, F3–F9 are multimodal functions,
                            F10–F19 are hybrid functions, and F20–F29 are composite functions. The unimodal function
                            with a unique global optimal solution is mainly used to evaluate the convergence accuracy
                            and speed of the algorithm in basic optimization scenarios. Multi-peak functions contain
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                 12 of 41



                            multiple local extremes and are used to test the algorithm’s ability to find the global optimal
                            solution as well as its ability to jump out of the local optimum. Hybrid functions, on the
                            other hand, combine multiple local optima and global optima, through which the balance
                            between the algorithm’s ability to explore globally and exploit locally in a complex search
                            space can be tested. Composite functions further increase the complexity and difficulty
                            of the problem and are used to test the algorithm’s ability to solve highly complex and
                            comprehensive problems. In this work, the maximum number of function evaluations is
                            used instead of the maximum number of iterations as a stopping criterion to fairly compare
                            the performance of each algorithm. The dimensions are 10D, 30D, 50D, and 100D, and the
                            search range is [−100, 100]D . The FEsmax is 1000 times the number of dimensions, which is
                            set to 10,000, 30,000, 90,000, and 100,000, respectively. All experimental results are obtained
                            by running each algorithm independently 30 times. The optimum, mean, and standard
                            deviation of all experiments were recorded, and the data were analyzed using the Friedman
                            test and Wilcoxon rank sum test.
                                  To rigorously assess the performance of the MSDCS algorithm, it was compared
                            against several advanced basic and improved algorithms, including (1) evolution-based
                            algorithms: AE [57], LSHADE [58], and APSM-jSO [59]; (2) physics-based algorithms:
                            RIME [60], RDGMVO [61]; (3) mathematics-based algorithms: QIO [62], MTVSCA [63];
                            (4) swarm-based algorithms: MRFO [64], EOSMA [65]. Table 1 provides the detailed
                            parameter settings of these comparative algorithms, derived from the respective original
                            literature.

                            Table 1. Parameters setting of MSDCS and other selected algorithms.

                                          Algorithm                                   Parameters Setting
                                                                                                   n                    o
                                                                                                                   2N√
                                           MSDCS                        pc = 0.5, γ = 0.6, Ns = max 6, round
                                                                                                                 3+3 5
                                                                        Nmin = max{ Ns + 4, round(0.2N )}, Nc = 0.5N
                                            DCS                                              m=3
                                           AE [57]                                           w=4
                                        LSHADE [58]                          F = 0.5, Cr = 0.5, p = 0.11, Nmin = 4
                                        APSM-jSO [59]                           k = 3, F = 0.3, CR = 0.8, H = 6
                                          RIME [60]                                          W=5
                                        RDGMVO [61]                         wmax = 1, wmin = 0.2, p = 0.6, α = 0.1
                                           QIO [62]                                α1 = 0.7, α2 = 0.15, w = 3
                                        MTVSCA [63]                                 λ = 0.25, n = 20, a = 2
                                          MRFO [64]                                           S=2
                                         EOSMA [65]                     V = 1, a1 = 2, a2 = 1, GP = 0.5, z = 0.6, q = 0.2


                            4.2. Parameter Sensitivity Analysis
                                  The parameter settings have a great impact on the search efficiency of the metaheuristic
                            algorithm. Two important parameters that affect the performance of MSDCS are the
                            minimum population Nmin for the LPSR strategy and the population Nc for the CDM
                            strategy. Parameter sensitivity is analyzed on the CEC2017 test set with the goal of finding
                            a parameter setting with a relatively high average ranking. Note that the experimental
                            results in this section are based on 30 separate runs. The grid search is conducted. The Nmin
                            is searched from 0.1N to 0.9N with a value interval of 0.1N. The Nc is searched from 0.1N to
                            1.0N with a value interval of 0.1N. Tables 2 and 3 show the statistical results of Friedman’s
                            test using α = 0.05 significance level for Nmin and Nc , respectively, and the best ranking is
                            bold. Figures 4 and 5 show the rankings for different parameter settings.
Biomimetics 2025, 10,Biomimetics
                     Biomimetics
                      260        2025,
                                 2025, 10,
                                       10, xx FOR
                                              FOR PEER
                                                  PEER REVIEW
                                                       REVIEW                                                                                        13 of 41
                                                                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                                                                13 of
                                                                                                                                                                   of 33




                                                    Table
                                     Table 2. Rankings
                                                    Table  2.
                                                       of MSDCS   withof
                                                           2. Rankings
                                                              Rankings of MSDCSN
                                                                       different
                                                                          MSDCS   min (α
                                                                                 with
                                                                                 with    = 0.05).NNmin
                                                                                      different
                                                                                       different       (α = 0.05).
                                                                                                   min (α = 0.05).



     Dimension      Dimension
                    Dimension
                     DCS          0.1N            DCS
                                                  DCS0.2N 0.1N
                                                             0.1N 0.3N0.2N
                                                                        0.2N            0.3N
                                                                                        0.3N
                                                                                     0.4N          0.4N
                                                                                                    0.4N
                                                                                                  0.5N          0.5N
                                                                                                                 0.5N
                                                                                                               0.6N         0.6N
                                                                                                                            0.6N
                                                                                                                           0.7N         0.7N
                                                                                                                                        0.7N
                                                                                                                                       0.8N         0.8N
                                                                                                                                                     0.8N
                                                                                                                                                    0.9N        0.9N
                                                                                                                                                                 0.9N
      D = 10          D  =
                    10.000  10
                       D = 10     2.379          10.000
                                                 10.000     2.379      2.379
                                                      2.379 2.3792.8972.379             2.897
                                                                                        2.897
                                                                                     4.172         4.172
                                                                                                    4.172
                                                                                                  4.552        4.552
                                                                                                                4.552
                                                                                                              5.966         5.966
                                                                                                                            5.966
                                                                                                                           6.586        6.586
                                                                                                                                        6.586
                                                                                                                                       7.310       7.310
                                                                                                                                                    7.310
                                                                                                                                                   7.759        7.759
                                                                                                                                                                7.759
      D = 30          DD == 30
                    10.000  30    1.931          10.000
                                                      1.931 1.931
                                                 10.000     1.9312.2411.931
                                                                       1.931            2.241
                                                                                        2.241
                                                                                     3.379         3.379
                                                                                                    3.379
                                                                                                  5.069        5.069
                                                                                                                5.069
                                                                                                              5.897         5.897
                                                                                                                            5.897
                                                                                                                           6.828        6.828
                                                                                                                                        6.828
                                                                                                                                       8.103       8.103
                                                                                                                                                    8.103
                                                                                                                                                   8.621        8.621
                                                                                                                                                                8.621
      D = 50          DD == 50
                    10.000  50    1.828          10.000
                                                      1.828 1.828
                                                 10.000     1.8282.5171.828
                                                                       1.828            2.517
                                                                                     3.759
                                                                                        2.517      3.759
                                                                                                  4.931
                                                                                                    3.759      4.931
                                                                                                              5.621
                                                                                                                4.931       5.621
                                                                                                                           7.000
                                                                                                                            5.621       7.000
                                                                                                                                       7.690
                                                                                                                                        7.000      7.690
                                                                                                                                                   8.828
                                                                                                                                                    7.690       8.828
                                                                                                                                                                8.828
      D = 100       10.000
                      D    100 1.931
                      D == 100                        1.931 1.931
                                                 10.000
                                                 10.000     1.9312.6211.931
                                                                       1.931         3.345
                                                                                        2.621
                                                                                        2.621     4.724
                                                                                                   3.345
                                                                                                    3.345     5.655
                                                                                                               4.724
                                                                                                                4.724      6.966
                                                                                                                            5.655
                                                                                                                            5.655      8.069
                                                                                                                                        6.966
                                                                                                                                        6.966      8.759
                                                                                                                                                   8.069
                                                                                                                                                    8.069       8.759
                                                                                                                                                                8.759
  Average ranking Average
                    10.000        2.017               2.017 2.017 2.5692.017         3.664        4.819       5.784        6.845       7.793       8.491
                  Average ranking
                            ranking              10.000
                                                 10.000     2.017      2.017            2.569
                                                                                        2.569      3.664
                                                                                                    3.664      4.819
                                                                                                               4.819        5.784
                                                                                                                            5.784       6.845
                                                                                                                                        6.845      7.793
                                                                                                                                                    7.793       8.491
                                                                                                                                                                8.491

                                                    Table
                                                    Table
                                     Table 3. Rankings    3.
                                                          3. Rankings
                                                                  withof
                                                             Rankings
                                                       of MSDCS          MSDCS
                                                                         MSDCS with
                                                                      ofdifferent with
                                                                                  N     = 0.05). NNcc (α
                                                                                       different
                                                                                   c (αdifferent       (α == 0.05).
                                                                                                             0.05).

    Dimension       Dimension
                    Dimension
                     DCS        0.1N            DCS
                                                DCS0.2N 0.1N
                                                          0.1N0.3N 0.2N
                                                                    0.2N 0.4N0.3N
                                                                              0.3N 0.5N0.4N
                                                                                       0.4N 0.6N0.5N
                                                                                                0.5N 0.7N0.6N
                                                                                                         0.6N 0.8N0.7N
                                                                                                                  0.7N 0.9N0.8N
                                                                                                                           0.8N                     0.9N
                                                                                                                                                     0.9N
                                                                                                                                                  0.10N         0.10N
                                                                                                                                                                0.10N
                      DD == 10
                            10                 11.000
                                               11.000 6.862
                                                         6.862 5.3105.310 5.103
                                                                              5.103 5.414
                                                                                       5.414 5.483
                                                                                                5.483 4.966
                                                                                                         4.966 4.931
                                                                                                                  4.931 5.345
                                                                                                                           5.345                    5.655
                                                                                                                                                     5.655      5.931
                                                                                                                                                                 5.931
      D = 10        11.000      6.862              5.310      5.103       5.414     5.483    4.966    4.931    5.345    5.655                      5.931
      D = 30
                      DD == 30
                    11.000  30 7.724           11.000
                                               11.000    7.7245.4486.000
                                                   6.000 7.724
                                                                             5.448
                                                                    6.000 5.276       5.276
                                                                              5.448 4.276      4.276
                                                                                       5.276 4.552      4.552
                                                                                                4.276 5.172      5.172
                                                                                                         4.552 4.759      4.759
                                                                                                                  5.172 5.414
                                                                                                                           4.759                    5.414
                                                                                                                                                     5.414
                                                                                                                                                   6.379
                                                                                                                                                                6.379
                                                                                                                                                                 6.379
      D = 50          DD == 50
                    11.000  50 6.552           11.000
                                               11.000    6.552
                                                   5.276 6.552     5.276     4.414
                                                              4.414 5.276 4.517       4.517
                                                                              4.414 4.724      4.724
                                                                                       4.517 5.241      5.241
                                                                                                4.724 5.897      5.897
                                                                                                         5.241 5.414      5.414
                                                                                                                  5.897 6.103
                                                                                                                           5.414                    6.103
                                                                                                                                                     6.103
                                                                                                                                                   6.862        6.862
                                                                                                                                                                 6.862
      D = 100         D
                      D == 100
                    11.000 100 5.552           11.000
                                                   4.414 5.552
                                               11.000    5.5524.2764.414     4.276
                                                                    4.414 4.414       4.414
                                                                              4.276 4.655      4.655
                                                                                       4.414 5.621      5.621
                                                                                                4.655 5.414      5.414
                                                                                                         5.621 6.069      6.069
                                                                                                                  5.414 7.000
                                                                                                                           6.069                    7.000
                                                                                                                                                   7.586
                                                                                                                                                     7.000      7.586
                                                                                                                                                                 7.586
  Average ranking Average
                    11.000 ranking
                  Average       6.672
                            ranking                5.250 6.672
                                               11.000
                                               11.000    6.6724.8105.250
                                                                    5.250 4.905
                                                                             4.810 4.784
                                                                             4.810     4.905 5.095
                                                                                      4.905     4.784 5.353
                                                                                               4.784     5.095 5.397
                                                                                                        5.095     5.353 6.043
                                                                                                                 5.353    5.397
                                                                                                                           5.397                   6.690
                                                                                                                                                    6.043
                                                                                                                                                     6.043      6.690
                                                                                                                                                                 6.690




                                                    Figure
                                                    Figure 4.
                                                           4. Friedman
                                                              Friedman rankings
                                                                        rankings of MSDCS
                                                                                    MSDCS with
                                                                                 ofdifferent with different NNmin  (α = 0.05).
                                     Figure 4. Friedman rankings   of MSDCS  with            Nmindifferent
                                                                                                   (α = 0.05). min (α = 0.05).




                                                    Figure
                                                    Figure
                                     Figure 5. Friedman    5.
                                                           5. Friedman
                                                              Friedman
                                                        rankings       rankings
                                                                        rankings
                                                                   of MSDCS  withof MSDCS
                                                                                    MSDCS with
                                                                                 ofdifferent with
                                                                                             Nc (α  = 0.05). NNcc (α
                                                                                                  different
                                                                                                  different        (α == 0.05).
                                                                                                                         0.05).


                                           For Nmin , we can  ForseeNNthat
                                                             For           , we
                                                                              we can
                                                                       min , MSDCS
                                                                      min                  see
                                                                                            see that
                                                                                     canachieves        MSDCS
                                                                                                  thattheMSDCS       achieves
                                                                                                          best averageachieves   the    best
                                                                                                                                        best average
                                                                                                                                  the when
                                                                                                                            ranking            average
                                                                                                                                               Nmin = 0.1Nranking
                                                                                                                                                          ranking whenwhe
                                     or Nmin = 0.2N.  NNmin  = 0.1N or
                                                          Moreover,
                                                         min = 0.1N   or as    N == 0.2
                                                                            NNmin
                                                                              min min
                                                                                        NN .. Moreover,
                                                                                     0.2decreases,
                                                                                              Moreover,    as NNmin
                                                                                                       the as
                                                                                                           correspondingdecreases,    the corresponding
                                                                                                                                 rankings    increase. This  rankings in
                                                                                                                   min decreases, the corresponding rankings in

                                     shows that thecrease.
                                                        LPSRThis
                                                     crease.     strategy
                                                                 This  shows
                                                                        shows can    improve
                                                                                  that
                                                                                   that  the
                                                                                          the LPSR
                                                                                               LPSRthestrategy
                                                                                                        algorithm’s
                                                                                                       strategy   can     performance
                                                                                                                  can improve
                                                                                                                         improve    the    by dynamically
                                                                                                                                     the algorithm’s
                                                                                                                                         algorithm’s    performance
                                                                                                                                                         performance bb
                                                     dynamically
                                     adjusting the population
                                                     dynamicallysize.   adjusting      the
                                                                               It should
                                                                         adjusting      the population
                                                                                              be noted that
                                                                                              population   size.  ItIt should
                                                                                                            size.the           be
                                                                                                                        value of
                                                                                                                       should   bennoted   that
                                                                                                                                      chosen
                                                                                                                                    noted      inthe
                                                                                                                                            that   thisvalue
                                                                                                                                                  the   paper
                                                                                                                                                       value  of
                                                                                                                                                              of nn chosen
                                                                                                                                                                    chose
                                     is 0.2N, whichin    this
                                                        is      paper
                                                            because     is
                                                                        the  0.2N
                                                                              CDM   , which    is
                                                                                        strategy   because
                                                                                                    needs    the
                                                                                                             to   CDM
                                                                                                                model      strategy
                                                                                                                           the         needs
                                                                                                                                probability
                                                     in this paper is 0.2N , which is because the CDM strategy needs to model the probabilit  to model    the
                                                                                                                                                distribution  probabilit
                                     through a sufficiently large number of populations, and too small a number cannot repre-
                                     sent the population evolutionary trend.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                              14 of 41



                                       For Nc , MSDCS with Nc = 0.7N achieved the best average ranking on 10D. The setting
                                  of Nc = 0.5N allowed MSDCS to reach the best Friedman ranking on 30D. For 50D and
                                  100D, MSDCS performed best overall when Nc = 0.3N. When all four dimensions are
                                  considered together, the parameter setting of Nc = 0.5N ensures that MSDCS has the
                                  highest overall average ranking. In conclusion, the parameter settings we chose for MSDCS
                                  were Nmin = 0.2N and Nc = 0.5N.

                                  4.3. Ablation Experiment
                                       This subsection discusses the effects of PES, LPSR, and CDM on MSDCM perfor-
                                  mance. Three MSDCS variants combining a single improvement strategy were developed
                                  as shown in Table 4. DCS-PES, DCS-LPSR, and DCS-CDM can be compared with the
                                  basic DCS to demonstrate the effectiveness of each strategy. Comparison of DCS-PES,
                                  DCS-LPSR, DCS-CDM and MSDCS can be further verified to the promotion between the
                                  improvement strategies.

                                  Table 4. Descriptions of MSDCS with different strategies.

                                     Strategy           DCS          DCS-PES         DCS-LPSR      DCS-CDM       MSDCS
                                        PES              No              Yes             No          No             Yes
                                       LPSR              No              No              Yes         No             Yes
                                       CDM               No              No              No          Yes            Yes


                                       DCS, DCS-PES, DCS-LPSR, DCS-CDM and MSDCS were run independently 30 times
                                  in the four-dimensional settings of the CEC2017 test suite and the results were analyzed
                                  using Friedman’s test. The original data containing the optimum values, mean values,
                                  and standard deviations can be found in Tables A1–A4 in the Appendix A file. Table 5
                                  summarizes the Friedman rankings for DCS, DCS-PES, DCS-LPSR, DCS-CDM, and MSDCS
                                  and is visualized in Figure 6. The Friedman test is a nonparametric statistical test used
                                  to compare the overall performance of multiple algorithms for significant differences. It
                                  determines the performance of an algorithm by ranking its performance on the test set and
                                  calculating the average ranking.

                                  Table 5. Rankings of MSDCS with different strategy (α = 0.05).

   Test suite         Dimension        DCS           DCS-PES         DCS-LPSR         DCS-CDM       MSDCS         p-Value
                     10                5.000            2.483           3.655            2.276       1.586        2.79E-17
                     30                5.000            2.448           3.897            2.379       1.276        2.37E-20
    CEC 2017
                     50                5.000            2.483           3.862            2.207       1.448        2.55E-19
                     100               5.000            2.759           3.931            1.897       1.414        7.92E-21
       Average ranking                 5.000            2.543           3.836            2.190       1.431          N/A
           Ranking                       5                3               4                2           1            N/A


                                       According to Table 5, the p-value for all four cases is less than 0.05, which indicates
                                  that there is a significant difference between DCS, DCS-PES, DCS-LPSR, DCS-CDM, and
                                  MSDCS. Based on Table 5 and Figure 6, the discussion is as follows. MSDCS ranks first in all
                                  four cases with an overall average ranking of 1.431, followed by DCS-CDM, DCS-PES, and
                                  DCS-LPSR, in that order, with the basic DCS coming last. The average ranking of the three
                                  DCS variants incorporating a single improvement strategy is better than that of the basic
                                  DCS, indicating that the single improvement strategy is effective in enhancing the DCS
                                  performance. The enhancement of DCS by PES and CDM is similar at 10D, 30D, and 50D,
                                  but CDM enhances the DCS performance more at 100D. The effects of the three strategies on
                                  DCS performance are CDM > PES > LPSR in descending order. The MSDCS, incorporating
                                               Table 5. Rankings of MSDCS with different strategy (α = 0.05).

                  Test suite         Dimension          DCS         DCS-PES       DCS-LPSR DCS-CDM          MSDCS         p-Value
                                          10            5.000          2.483         3.655       2.276        1.586       2.79E-17
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260
                                          30            5.000          2.448         3.897       2.379        1.276 15 of 2.37E-20
                                                                                                                          41
                       CEC 2017
                                          50            5.000          2.483         3.862       2.207        1.448       2.55E-19
                                         100            5.000          2.759         3.931       1.897        1.414       7.92E-21
                           Averagethe three improvement
                                    ranking                 strategies,2.543
                                                        5.000           outperforms3.836
                                                                                      the DCS variant
                                                                                                 2.190incorporating
                                                                                                              1.431 a singleN/A
                                  improvement strategy, 5which indicates
                               Ranking                                   3 that the three
                                                                                       4 improvement
                                                                                                   2 strategies can
                                                                                                                1 enhanceN/A
                                  each other to further enhance the DCS performance.




                                              Figure
                               Figure 6. Friedman    6. Friedman
                                                   rankings      rankings
                                                             of MSDCS     of MSDCS
                                                                       with  differentwith       (α =strategy
                                                                                           different
                                                                                       strategy       0.05). (α = 0.05).

                                             4.4. Comparison
                                    The excellent   performancewith of
                                                                    Other
                                                                       the Advanced
                                                                            DCS-CDM     Algorithms
                                                                                           algorithm is attributed to the guidance
                               of the CDM strategy,    which
                                                   After       calculatessensitivity
                                                         the parameter      the distribution
                                                                                         analysis trend
                                                                                                     and of the dominant
                                                                                                          ablation            population
                                                                                                                    experiments,    we further per-
                               through a Gaussian     probability
                                             form a full  comparisondistribution
                                                                         using the model
                                                                                     advanced andimproved
                                                                                                    thus guides
                                                                                                              and the
                                                                                                                   basicevolution   of the
                                                                                                                           algorithms   and the pro-
                                             posed In
                               entire population.    MSDCS    in thethe
                                                        addition,     CEC2017     test set. Inenriches
                                                                          CDM strategy          this subsection,  this paper
                                                                                                         the population        mainly analyzes
                                                                                                                             diversity   by       the
                                             experimental   results  using   the Friedman      test and  Wilcoxon
                               adding individuals to the population that are not new individuals generated based on  rank   sum  test. The  complete
                                             experimental
                               a single old individual.     results
                                                          The   PESobtained
                                                                      strategyby    MSDCS
                                                                                 selects       and the
                                                                                          agents     by comparison    algorithms
                                                                                                        comprehensively            are summarized
                                                                                                                              evaluating
                                             in Tables  A5–A8   in Appendix     A,  including    the  best value (Best),  the
                               fitness and distance, which allows for a better balance between exploitation and exploration.  average   value (Ave)
                                             the  standard deviation    (Std), and  the rank.   As  the Friedman
                               However, since it does not implement a new search strategy, it does not improve the test and   Wilcoxon   test analyze
                               performance the    performance
                                              of the  DCS as muchof MSDCS
                                                                       as theandCDM thestrategy.
                                                                                         comparison  Thealgorithms    as a whole,
                                                                                                          LPSR strategy      ensuresthis  paper uses
                                                                                                                                       that
                                             heat   maps to initially  show   the  mean-based      rankings   of MSDCS     and
                               convergence can be accelerated at a later stage by shrinking the population, but, at the same    the competition    al-
                                             gorithms   on each  function.
                               time, this measure somewhat weakens the population diversity. Each of the three strategies
                                                   The ranking of MSDCS and the comparison algorithms on each function in differen
                               has its own focus and at the same time complements the other to realize the enhancement
                                             dimensions is visualized in Figure 7. In Figure 7, MSDCS ranks first with 22 functions on
                               of MSDCS.
                                             10D, performs best with 18 functions on 30D, provides the best solution with 15 functions
                                             onwith
                               4.4. Comparison   50D,Other
                                                      and achieves
                                                            Advanced theAlgorithms
                                                                          top ranking with 16 functions on 100D. That is, MSDCS achieved
                                             the best rankings in more than half of the 29 CEC2017 test functions under different di-
                                    After the parameter sensitivity analysis and ablation experiments, we further perform
                                             mensions, which tentatively shows the superiority of MSDCS.
                               a full comparison using the advanced improved and basic algorithms and the proposed
                               MSDCS in the CEC2017 test set. In this subsection, this paper mainly analyzes the ex-
                               perimental results using the Friedman test and Wilcoxon rank sum test. The complete
                               experimental results obtained by MSDCS and the comparison algorithms are summarized
                               in Tables A5–A8 in Appendix A, including the best value (Best), the average value (Ave),
                               the standard deviation (Std), and the rank. As the Friedman test and Wilcoxon test analyze
                               the performance of MSDCS and the comparison algorithms as a whole, this paper uses heat
                               maps to initially show the mean-based rankings of MSDCS and the competition algorithms
                               on each function.
                                    The ranking of MSDCS and the comparison algorithms on each function in different
                               dimensions is visualized in Figure 7. In Figure 7, MSDCS ranks first with 22 functions on
                               10D, performs best with 18 functions on 30D, provides the best solution with 15 functions on
                               50D, and achieves the top ranking with 16 functions on 100D. That is, MSDCS achieved the
                               best rankings in more than half of the 29 CEC2017 test functions under different dimensions,
                               which tentatively shows the superiority of MSDCS.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                     16 of 37
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                    16 of 41




                            (a) CEC2017 10D                                                         (b) CEC2017 30D




                            (c) CEC2017 50D                                                        (d) CEC2017 100D

                                   Figure 7. The ranking heatmaps of MSDCS and comparison algorithms solving CEC2017
                                                                                                             CEC2017 test
                                                                                                                     test suite.
                                                                                                                          suite.

                                         Table
                                         Table 66summarizes
                                                    summarizesthethe   Friedman
                                                                           Friedman  testtest
                                                                                          results   for MSDCS,
                                                                                                results  for MSDCS,DCS, AE,DCS, LSHADE,      APSM-
                                                                                                                                   AE, LSHADE,
                                   jSO,  RIME, RDGMVO,
                                   APSM-jSO,      RIME, RDGMVO, QIO, MTVSCA,          MRFO, MRFO,
                                                                           QIO, MTVSCA,         and EOSMA,        and the and
                                                                                                          and EOSMA,        corresponding       rank-
                                                                                                                                  the correspond-
                                   ings  are displayed    in Figure   8.  In Figure   8, the rankings    of  all the algorithms
                                   ing rankings are displayed in Figure 8. In Figure 8, the rankings of all the algorithms are      are  kept  stable
                                   across  dimensions,
                                   kept stable             which suggests
                                                  across dimensions,       whichthatsuggests
                                                                                      the algorithms
                                                                                                 that thethat   participate
                                                                                                           algorithms     thatinparticipate
                                                                                                                                 the experiments
                                                                                                                                               in the
                                   have   good   robustness.    The   proposed     MSDCS       is  ranked   first in all four
                                   experiments have good robustness. The proposed MSDCS is ranked first in all four cases,     cases,   and  DCS    is
                                   ranked
                                   and DCS  last.
                                               is This  fully
                                                   ranked      reflects
                                                            last.  This the   advantage
                                                                          fully             of MSDCS
                                                                                 reflects the    advantageoverofDCS.
                                                                                                                   MSDCSMSDCSoverand DCS.RDGMVO
                                                                                                                                            MSDCS
                                   are  ranked   similarly   on  50D  and    100D,   which    is  consistent   with  the
                                   and RDGMVO are ranked similarly on 50D and 100D, which is consistent with the analy-   analysis   results  in Fig-
                                   ure  7. According
                                   sis results          to Table
                                                in Figure          6, the Friedman
                                                            7. According      to Table 6,p-value    for all four
                                                                                            the Friedman          dimensions
                                                                                                              p-value             is less
                                                                                                                         for all four     than 0.05,
                                                                                                                                       dimensions
                                   which   means    that there  is a significant    difference     between   MSDCS     and
                                   is less than 0.05, which means that there is a significant difference between MSDCS and   DCS,    AE,  LSHADE,
                                   APSM-jSO,     RIME, RDGMVO,
                                   DCS, AE, LSHADE,          APSM-jSO,   QIO,   MTVSCA,
                                                                             RIME,    RDGMVO,MRFO,QIO, and MTVSCA,
                                                                                                             EOSMA. The       following
                                                                                                                           MRFO,           provides
                                                                                                                                      and EOSMA.
                                   specific  Friedman     test results   from   Table  6.
                                   The following provides specific Friedman test results from Table 6.
                                         For CEC2017 10D, MSDCS ranks in the first place, followed by APSM-jSO, QIO,
                                   Table 6. Rankings of MSDCS and comparison algorithms (α = 0.05).
                                    RDGMVO, RIME, MRFO, EOSMA, LSHADE, AE, MTVSCA, and DCS. This shows that
                                    MSDCS is outpacing the competition    algorithm
                                                                    CEC-2017           when solving CEC2017 10D functions.
                                                                              Test Suite
       Algorithm                         For CEC2017 30D, MSDCS ranks in the first place, followed by RDGMVO, APSM-
                                 10D            30D             50D              100D          Average Ranking        Rank
                                    jSO, RIME, LSHADE, QIO, MRFO, EOSMA, AE, MTVSCA, and DCS. This shows that
        MSDCS                    1.621          1.690           2.310            2.276                1.974             1
          DCS                       MSDCS is outpacing
                                11.000         11.000    the competition
                                                               10.931     algorithm
                                                                                10.793when solving10.931
                                                                                                       CEC2017 50D functions.
                                                                                                                       11
          AE                     8.172 For CEC2017
                                                7.931 50D, MSDCS7.793 ranks in the  first place, followed
                                                                                 7.138                7.759 by RDGMVO,9APSM-
       LSHADE                    6.034          5.310           4.828            4.069                5.060
                                    jSO, LSHADE, RIME, QIO, EOSMA, MRFO, AE, MTVSCA, and DCS. This shows                4  that
       APSM-jSO                  4.379          4.448           4.517            4.414                4.440             3
                                    MSDCS is outpacing the competition algorithm when solving CEC2017 50D functions.
         RIME                   5.172           5.069          4.931             5.379                5.138             5
       RDGMVO                    4.862 For CEC2017
                                                3.276 100D, MSDCS
                                                                2.759ranks in the2.517
                                                                                  first place, followed   by RDGMVO, LSHADE,
                                                                                                      3.353             2
          QIO                       APSM-jSO, RIME,
                                 4.483          5.414 QIO, EOSMA,
                                                                5.552    MRFO, 6.207
                                                                                  AE, MTVSCA, and     5.414DCS. This shows
                                                                                                                        6  that
       MTVSCA                    8.862          9.724           9.897            9.724                9.552
                                    MSDCS is outpacing the competition algorithm when solving CEC2017 100D functions.  10
         MRFO                    5.690            6.000          6.310          6.759              6.190                                 7
        EOSMA                    5.724            6.138          6.172          6.724              6.190                                 7
   Friedman p-value                 Table 6. Rankings
                               4.10E-31               of MSDCS 2.49E-35
                                                8.69E-36       and comparison algorithms
                                                                              2.39E-35 (α = 0.05). N/A                                  N/A
                                                                            CEC-2017 Test Suite
         Algorithm
                                    10D                30D               50D          100D                  Average Ranking                Rank
           MSDCS                   1.621              1.690             2.310         2.276                      1.974                       1
            DCS                    11.000             11.000            10.931        10.793                     10.931                     11
            AE                      8.172              7.931             7.793         7.138                     7.759                       9
                                 QIO                  4.483             5.414             5.552             6.207                   5.414            6
                              MTVSCA                  8.862             9.724             9.897             9.724                   9.552            10
                                MRFO                  5.690             6.000             6.310             6.759                   6.190            7
 Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260     EOSMA                  5.724             6.138             6.172             6.724                   6.190  17 of 41  7
                          Friedman
Biomimetics 2025, 10, x FOR         P-value
                            PEER REVIEW             4.10E-31          8.69E-36          2.49E-35          2.39E-35                  N/A 17 of 37    N/A



        LSHADE                     6.034             5.310              4.828              4.069                     5.060                   4
        APSM-jSO                   4.379             4.448              4.517              4.414                     4.440                   3
          RIME                     5.172             5.069              4.931              5.379                     5.138                   5
        RDGMVO                     4.862             3.276              2.759              2.517                     3.353                   2
           QIO                     4.483             5.414              5.552              6.207                     5.414                   6
        MTVSCA                     8.862             9.724              9.897              9.724                     9.552                   10
          MRFO                     5.690             6.000              6.310              6.759                     6.190                   7
         EOSMA                     5.724             6.138              6.172              6.724                     6.190                   7
    Friedman P-value             4.10E-31          8.69E-36           2.49E-35           2.39E-35                    N/A                    N/A


                                                  Figure
                                   Figure 8. Friedman    8. Friedman
                                                      rankings       rankings
                                                                 of MSDCS  andofcomparison
                                                                                 MSDCS andalgorithms
                                                                                           comparison(α
                                                                                                      algorithms
                                                                                                        = 0.05). (α = 0.05).

                                         For CEC2017The     10D,Friedman
                                                                    MSDCStest      onlyin
                                                                                ranks    indicates
                                                                                            the firstwhether
                                                                                                         place, there
                                                                                                                   followedis a difference
                                                                                                                                 by APSM-jSO,between    MSDCS and
                                                                                                                                                     QIO,
                                                      the comparison     algorithms,    but   it  does  not
                                   RDGMVO, RIME, MRFO, EOSMA, LSHADE, AE, MTVSCA, and DCS. This shows that   formalize     the  difference   between    MSDCS and
                                   MSDCS is outpacing each algorithm.    Based onalgorithm
                                                               the competition        the resultswhen
                                                                                                    of the solving
                                                                                                            Friedman       test, the 10D
                                                                                                                        CEC2017      Nemenyi     test was used as a
                                                                                                                                          functions.
                                                      post hoc  test. Figure    1 illustrates    the magnitude       of
                                         For CEC2017 30D, MSDCS ranks in the first place, followed by RDGMVO, APSM-jSO,  the  differences   between     MSDCS and
                                                      the comparison     algorithms,    where     the algorithms
                                   RIME, LSHADE, QIO, MRFO, EOSMA, AE, MTVSCA, and DCS. This shows that MSDCS         that  are  connected    by lines  indicate tha
                                   is outpacing the   there are no significant
                                                         competition     algorithm differences     between
                                                                                        when solving          them. From
                                                                                                           CEC2017        50DFigure    9, MSDCS differs from al
                                                                                                                                functions.
                                                      comparison algorithms on 10D. As for RDGMVO, MSDCS has no significant difference in
                                         For CEC2017 50D, MSDCS ranks in the first place, followed by RDGMVO, APSM-jSO,
                                                      the remaining three dimensions. For APSM-jSO and LSHADE, MSDCS differs on 30D and
                                   LSHADE, RIME, QIO, EOSMA, MRFO, AE, MTVSCA, and DCS. This shows that MSDCS
                                                      has no difference on 50D and 100D. For all other algorithms, MSDCS shows significan
                                   is outpacing the competition algorithm when solving CEC2017 50D functions.
                                                      superiority. In conclusion, MSDCS has significant advantages and is a promising DCS
                                         For CEC2017 100D, MSDCS ranks in the first place, followed by RDGMVO, LSHADE,
                                                      variant.
                                  Figure  8. Friedman
                                   APSM-jSO,       RIME, rankings   of MSDCS
                                                           QIO, EOSMA,           and comparison
                                                                               MRFO,     AE, MTVSCA,  algorithms     (α = 0.05).
                                                                                                              and DCS.       This shows that MSDCS
                                   is outpacing the competition algorithm when solving CEC2017 100D functions.
                                       The
                                         TheFriedman
                                                Friedmantest testonly
                                                                  onlyindicates
                                                                         indicateswhether
                                                                                       whethertherethereisisa adifference
                                                                                                                 differencebetween
                                                                                                                                betweenMSDCS
                                                                                                                                           MSDCSand   and
                                  the comparison       algorithms,    but  it  does   not formalize      the   difference
                                   the comparison algorithms, but it does not formalize the difference between MSDCS and      between    MSDCS      and
                                  each
                                   eachalgorithm.
                                          algorithm.   Based
                                                          Basedon on
                                                                   thethe
                                                                        results   of the
                                                                            results       Friedman
                                                                                       of the    Friedmantest, test,
                                                                                                                the Nemenyi
                                                                                                                      the Nemenyi  test was
                                                                                                                                         testused
                                                                                                                                               was as   a
                                                                                                                                                     used
                                  post
                                   as ahoc
                                        post  test.
                                                hocFigure    1 illustrates
                                                      test.10D
                                                            Figure            the magnitude
                                                                     1 illustrates    the magnitude of theofdifferences       between
                                                                                                                the differences          MSDCS and
                                                                                                                                     between
                                          (a) CEC2017                                                                   (b) CEC2017     30D MSDCS
                                  the
                                   and the comparison algorithms, where the algorithms that are connected byindicate
                                      comparison       algorithms,    where    the  algorithms      that  are   connected      by  lines            that
                                                                                                                                          lines indicate
                                  there
                                   that are
                                         thereno are
                                                  significant   differences
                                                       no significant           betweenbetween
                                                                          differences       them. From them. Figure
                                                                                                                 From9, Figure
                                                                                                                            MSDCS9,differs
                                                                                                                                       MSDCS   from   all
                                                                                                                                                   differs
                                  comparison      algorithms    on  10D.   As   for  RDGMVO,         MSDCS
                                   from all comparison algorithms on 10D. As for RDGMVO, MSDCS has no significanthas   no  significant   difference    in
                                  the remaining
                                   difference        three
                                                 in the     dimensions.
                                                         remaining     threeFor   APSM-jSOFor
                                                                              dimensions.         and  LSHADE,and
                                                                                                     APSM-jSO         MSDCSLSHADE,differs  on 30Ddiffers
                                                                                                                                        MSDCS       and
                                  has  no   difference    on  50D   and   100D.    For  all  other   algorithms,
                                   on 30D and has no difference on 50D and 100D. For all other algorithms, MSDCS shows MSDCS       shows    significant
                                  superiority.
                                   significant     In conclusion,
                                                  superiority.
                                           (c) CEC2017                MSDCS has
                                                           50D In conclusion,          significant
                                                                                    MSDCS              advantages
                                                                                               has significant           and
                                                                                                                    advantages
                                                                                                                       (d)      is aand
                                                                                                                            CEC2017  promising     DCS
                                                                                                                                         is a promising
                                                                                                                                       100D
                                  variant.
                                   DCS variant.
                                                     Figure 9. The Nemenyi test results of MSEDO and comparison algorithms.




                        (a) CEC2017 10D                                                             (b) CEC2017 30D




                        (c) CEC2017 50D                                                            (d) CEC2017 100D

                                  Figure
                                   Figure9.9.The
                                              TheNemenyi
                                                  Nemenyitest
                                                           testresults
                                                                 resultsofofMSEDO
                                                                             MSEDOand
                                                                                   andcomparison
                                                                                       comparisonalgorithms.
                                                                                                  algorithms.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                   18 of 37



Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                18 of 41
                                         This was followed by a Wilcoxon rank sum test to examine the differences between
                                   MSDCS and all comparison algorithms for each function. Table 7 summarizes the statistics
                                   for MSDCS, DCS, AE, LSHADE, APSM-jSO, RIME, RDGMVO, QIO, MTVSCA, MRFO,
                                         This was followed by a Wilcoxon rank sum test to examine the differences between
                                   and EOSMA, where the number of symbols “+” denotes the number of functions for which
                                   MSDCS and all comparison algorithms for each function. Table 7 summarizes the statistics
                                   MSDCS outperforms the comparative algorithms. The number of “−” symbols indicates
                                   for MSDCS, DCS, AE, LSHADE, APSM-jSO, RIME, RDGMVO, QIO, MTVSCA, MRFO, and
                                   the number of functions for which MSDCS is inferior to the comparison algorithm. The
                                   EOSMA, where the number of symbols “+” denotes the number of functions for which
                                   number of “=” indicates the number of functions for which MSDCS and the comparison
                                   MSDCS outperforms the comparative algorithms. The number of “−” symbols indicates the
                                   algorithm have similar performance. Figure 10 shows the number of functions for which
                                   number of functions for which MSDCS is inferior to the comparison algorithm. The number
                                   MSDCS is better/similar/inferior to the comparison algorithm. From the “Total” in the last
                                   of “=” indicates the number of functions for which MSDCS and the comparison algorithm
                                   column of Table 7, it can be seen that MSDCS significantly outperforms at least half of the
                                   have similar performance. Figure 10 shows the number of functions for which MSDCS is
                                   functions when compared with different algorithms, which indicates that the overall per-
                                   better/similar/inferior to the comparison algorithm. From the “Total” in the last column of
                                   formance of MSDCS is better than that of other comparative algorithms. In 10D, MSDCS
                                   Table 7, it can be seen that MSDCS significantly outperforms at least half of the functions
                                   only underperforms the other algorithms when compared with APSM-jSO, RIME,
                                   when compared with different algorithms, which indicates that the overall performance
                                   RDGMVO, and EOSMA, but at least 19 functions are better than these algorithms. In 30D,
                                   of MSDCS is better than that of other comparative algorithms. In 10D, MSDCS only
                                   MSDCS only loses to RIME, RDGMVO, and QIO in some of the functions, but outper-
                                   underperforms the other algorithms when compared with APSM-jSO, RIME, RDGMVO,
                                   forms each of them in more functions (at least 18). In higher-dimensional functions
                                   and EOSMA, but at least 19 functions are better than these algorithms. In 30D, MSDCS
                                   (50D/100D), MSDCS performance drops slightly. MSDCS scores against each other in
                                   only loses to RIME, RDGMVO, and QIO in some of the functions, but outperforms each of
                                   comparisons with APSM-jSO, RIME, RDGMVO, and QIO. For 50D, MSDCS achieves
                                   them in more functions (at least 18). In higher-dimensional functions (50D/100D), MSDCS
                                   fewer “+” than “−” in the comparison with RDGMVO. However, combining the Friedman
                                   performance drops slightly. MSDCS scores against each other in comparisons with APSM-
                                   test and heat map analysis, MSDCS is the better performer in all three functions, in which
                                   jSO, RIME, RDGMVO, and QIO. For 50D, MSDCS achieves fewer “+” than “−” in the
                                   MSDCS and RDGMVO perform similarly. Therefore, we can still conclude that the overall
                                   comparison with RDGMVO. However, combining the Friedman test and heat map analysis,
                                   performance of MSDCS is superior to that of RDGMVO for the 50D functions. Notably,
                                   MSDCS is the better performer in all three functions, in which MSDCS and RDGMVO
                                   MSDCS achieves the success of all the functions under all four dimensions in comparison
                                   perform similarly. Therefore, we can still conclude that the overall performance of MSDCS
                                   with DCS. In conclusion, the Wilcoxon rank sum test reconfirms the great performance of
                                   is superior to that of RDGMVO for the 50D functions. Notably, MSDCS achieves the success
                                   MSDCS.
                                   of all the functions under all four dimensions in comparison with DCS. In conclusion, the
                                   Wilcoxon rank sum test reconfirms the great performance of MSDCS.
                                   Table 7. The Wilcoxon rank sum test results of MSDCS and comparison algorithms (α = 0.05).

                                   Table
                                   MSDCS 7. The
                                             vs.Wilcoxon rank sum30D
                                                   10D (+/=/−)    test results
                                                                       (+/=/−)of MSDCS and comparison
                                                                                  50D (+/=/−)   100D algorithms
                                                                                                      (+/=/−)   (α = 0.05).
                                                                                                                Total  (+/=/−)
                                       DCS            29/0/0        29/0/0          29/0/0           29/0/0          116/0/0
                                     MSDCS vs.        10D (+/=/−)   30D (+/=/−)      50D (+/=/−)    100D (+/=/−)    Total (+/=/−)
                                       AE             29/0/0        29/0/0          29/0/0           29/0/0          116/0/0
                                        DCS             29/0/0        29/0/0            29/0/0         29/0/0         116/0/0
                                    LSHADE
                                        AE
                                                      28/1/0
                                                        29/0/0
                                                                    29/0/0
                                                                      29/0/0
                                                                                    29/0/0
                                                                                       29/0/0
                                                                                                     22/7/0
                                                                                                       29/0/0
                                                                                                                     108/8/0
                                                                                                                      116/0/0
                                    APSM-jSO
                                      LSHADE          26/1/2
                                                        28/1/0      29/0/0
                                                                      29/0/0        28/0/1
                                                                                       29/0/0        27/1/1
                                                                                                       22/7/0        108/2/4
                                                                                                                      108/8/0
                                      RIME
                                     APSM-jSO         22/4/3
                                                        26/1/2      20/2/7
                                                                      29/0/0        18/2/9
                                                                                       28/0/1        20/0/9
                                                                                                       27/1/1        80/8/28
                                                                                                                      108/2/4
                                       RIME
                                    RDGMVO              22/4/3
                                                      19/5/5          20/2/7
                                                                    18/4/7              18/2/9
                                                                                    12/3/14            20/0/9
                                                                                                     13/4/12          80/8/28
                                                                                                                     62/16/38
                                     RDGMVO             19/5/5        18/4/7           12/3/14        13/4/12        62/16/38
                                       QIO            27/2/0        25/3/1          23/3/3           26/1/2          101/9/6
                                        QIO             27/2/0        25/3/1           23/3/3          26/1/2         101/9/6
                                    MTVSCA
                                      MTVSCA          29/0/0
                                                        29/0/0      29/0/0
                                                                      29/0/0        29/0/0
                                                                                        29/0/0       29/0/0
                                                                                                       29/0/0        116/0/0
                                                                                                                      116/0/0
                                      MRFO
                                       MRFO           27/2/0
                                                        27/2/0      24/5/0
                                                                      24/5/0        23/2/4
                                                                                        23/2/4       24/0/5
                                                                                                       24/0/5         95/9/9
                                                                                                                       95/9/9
                                      EOSMA
                                     EOSMA              27/1/1
                                                      27/1/1          27/2/0
                                                                    27/2/0              25/1/3
                                                                                    25/1/3             25/1/3
                                                                                                     25/1/3           104/5/7
                                                                                                                     104/5/7




                            (a) CEC2017 10D                                              (b) CEC2017 30D

                                   Figure 10. Cont.
Biomimetics
Biomimetics 2025,
            2025, 10,
                  10, x FOR PEER REVIEW
                      260                                                                                                                                        1919ofof 37
                                                                                                                                                                          41




                        (c) CEC2017 50D                                                                        (d) CEC2017 100D



                                 Figure 10. Visualization of Wilcoxon rank sum test results of MSDCS and comparison algorithms
                                 Figure 10. Visualization of Wilcoxon rank sum test results of MSDCS and comparison algorithms
                                 (α = 0.05).
                                 (α = 0.05).
                                 5. Numerical Experiments Using Engineering Optimization Problem
                                 5. Numerical Experiments Using Engineering Optimization Problem
                                       In this section, we apply MSDCS to solve engineering optimization problems with
                                       In this
                                 the aim       section, weits
                                            of evaluating   apply MSDCS
                                                              potential  forto solve engineering
                                                                             solving               optimization problems.
                                                                                      real-world optimization       problems with
                                                                                                                               The
                                 the  aim  of evaluating its potential for solving real-world optimization     problems.
                                 engineering optimization problems contain the wireless sensor network coverage problem    The en-
                                 gineering    optimization
                                 and the pressure          problems
                                                    vessel design     contain
                                                                  problem.     theparameter
                                                                             The   wireless sensor
                                                                                            settingsnetwork     coverage involved
                                                                                                      for all algorithms  problem
                                 and   the  pressure vessel  design  problem.   The  parameter   settings
                                 in the following experiments of this section are the same as in Table 1.  for  all algorithms  in-
                                 volved in the following experiments of this section are the same as in Table 1.
                                 5.1. Wireless Sensor Network Coverage Problem
                                 5.1. Wireless
                                       WirelessSensor Network
                                                 sensor        Coverage
                                                        networks  (WSNs) Problem
                                                                            have become more popular than ever. WSNs repre-
                                 sent Wireless
                                       an emerging    sensor   computing
                                                                     networksand             networking
                                                                                        (WSNs)         have become  paradigm    morethat     can bethan
                                                                                                                                        popular       defined
                                                                                                                                                          ever.asWSNs
                                                                                                                                                                  networks
                                                                                                                                                                        rep-
                                 composed
                                 resent          of miniature,
                                         an emerging              computingsmall, inexpensive,
                                                                                        and networking        and paradigm
                                                                                                                      highly intelligent
                                                                                                                                       that candevices    known
                                                                                                                                                   be defined      as sensor
                                                                                                                                                               as networks
                                 nodes. In wireless
                                 composed        of miniature,  sensorsmall,   network        node deployment,
                                                                                        inexpensive,           and highly             deploy Ndevices
                                                                                                                                weintelligent       wirelessknown
                                                                                                                                                              sensorasnodes
                                                                                                                                                                        sen-
                                 in anodes.
                                 sor   two-dimensional
                                                 In wireless sensor      planar network
                                                                                      region. The      nodesetdeployment,
                                                                                                                    of homogeneous      we deploy       N sensor
                                                                                                                                                 wireless  wirelessnodes
                                                                                                                                                                     sensoris
                                 S = {sin
                                 nodes     , s
                                             a
                                         1 2 3  , s  , . . . ,
                                                two-dimensionals i , . . . , s N } . Each
                                                                                  planar      node
                                                                                               region.   can   obtain
                                                                                                             The    set    its
                                                                                                                           of   position
                                                                                                                               homogeneous    and  has an identical
                                                                                                                                                    wireless  sensorsensing
                                                                                                                                                                      nodes
                                 is  S = {Rs1s,s
                                 radius            ,s3 ,...,s
                                               . 2We    assume  i ,,,,stheN } . monitoring
                                                                                 Each node can         areaobtain
                                                                                                               is a 2D   itsrectangular
                                                                                                                              position andarea    has of   × W. The
                                                                                                                                                      anLidentical  sensing
                                                                                                                                                                       set of
                                 radius Rs . We assume the monitoring
                                 monitoring       nodes        is    M    =      m    , m   , m    , . . . , m  , . . . , M           . ( x i iarea of L × W . The set of
                                                                                                                                             , y ) denotes  the coordinates
                                                                                    1
                                                                                      2 3 area jis a 2D rectangular         L ×W
                                 of each sensor
                                 monitoring        nodes node   is siM  . x=j{, my j ,m
                                                                                    1
                                                                                        denotes
                                                                                         2 ,m   3 ,...,mthe,...,M
                                                                                                           j
                                                                                                              coordinates
                                                                                                                      L×W   } .  (xof, yeach
                                                                                                                                   i i   )      monitoring
                                                                                                                                             denotes          node m j . The
                                                                                                                                                        the coordinates    of
                                 Euclidean distance between the two nodes is as below:
                                 each sensor node si . (x j , y j ) denotes the coordinates of each monitoring node m j . The
                                                                                                     q                 2                  2
                                 Euclidean distance betweend(the                         two
                                                                                    si , m j )  = nodes    xiis−as x jbelow:
                                                                                                                           + yi − y j                                    (18)
                                                                                                   2
                                      In this paper, we use a Boolean          j ) = model
                                                                     d (si ,m0–1       (xi − xto      + (yi − y j )2whether a sensor node (18)
                                                                                                j ) determine                             can
                                 detect a monitoring node or not. The probability of monitoring point m j being sensed by
                                      In this paper, we use a Boolean 0–1 model to determine whether a sensor node can
                                 node si is defined as follows:
                                 detect a monitoring node or not. The probability of monitoring point m j being sensed by
                                                                                  (
                                 node si is defined as follows:
                                                                                                          
                                                                                      1, i f d si , m j ≤ Rs
                                                             pc ( s i , m j ) =                                                           (19)
                                                                                      0, otherwise
                                                                                       1 ,if   d ( si ,m j ) ≤ R s
                                                                       pc (si ,m j ) =                                                   (19)
                                      The all-sensor coverage rate Cr can be obtained   0 ,otherwise from Equation (20).

                                          The all-sensor coverage rate Cr canL×be
                                                                                W obtained from Equation (20).
                                                                              ∑ pc s i , m j
                                                                                                 j=L1×W
                                                                                       Cr =
                                                                                                    L ×pcW(si ,m j )                                                 (20)
                                                                                                                                                                      (20)
                                                                                                     j =1
                                                                       Cr =
                                                                                L ×W
                                      Figure 11 presents the visual representation of the coverage area for different algo-
                                 rithms in solving the wireless network coverage problem. Figure 12 displays the conver-
                                      Figure 11 presents the visual representation of the coverage area for different algo-
                                 gence curves and boxplots for the same problem, showing the coverage area for different
                                 rithms in solving the wireless network coverage problem. Figure 12 displays the conver-
                                 gence curves and boxplots for the same problem, showing the coverage area for different
                              algorithms. It is evident that MSDCS achieves the largest network coverage area, outper-
                              forming the DCS, RDGMVO, and APSM-jSO. The experimental results presented in Table
                              8 compare the performance of various algorithms in optimizing sensor wireless network
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                          20 of 41
                              coverage. The MSDCS algorithm achieves the highest coverage value of 85.95%, demon-
                              strating its superior ability to maximize sensor coverage. This result highlights MSDCS’s
                              exceptional efficiency in optimizing network coverage compared to other algorithms. The
                            algorithms. It is evident that MSDCS achieves the largest network coverage area, outper-
                              RDGMVO algorithm follows closely behind with a value of 80.99%, showing competitive
                            forming   the DCS,
                              performance          RDGMVO,
                                              in terms           andefficiency.
                                                        of coverage    APSM-jSO.  TheThe  experimental
                                                                                       APSM-jSO           results
                                                                                                   algorithm       presented
                                                                                                               achieves        in Table 8
                                                                                                                         a cover-
                            compare
                              age valuethe    performance
                                          of 71.90%,           of various
                                                       performing   slightlyalgorithms     in optimizing
                                                                             better than the  DCS algorithm,sensor
                                                                                                                whichwireless
                                                                                                                        achievednetwork
                            coverage.
                              a value of 64.46%. The convergence curves show that the MSDCS algorithm is able to finddemon-
                                         The    MSDCS      algorithm    achieves   the highest   coverage   value   of 85.95%,
                            strating
                              the bestits superior
                                       coverage        ability
                                                   scheme      to maximize
                                                            quickly.           sensor
                                                                     The boxplot   showscoverage.
                                                                                          that MSDCSThishas
                                                                                                          result  highlights
                                                                                                            the best           MSDCS’s
                                                                                                                      robustness
                              and provides
                            exceptional        a more centralized
                                           efficiency                distribution
                                                         in optimizing    network of coverage
                                                                                     solutions. compared
                                                                                                These resultsto confirm  that the
                                                                                                                other algorithms.     The
                              proposed    MSDCS     is the most  efficient approach   to solving  the sensor  network
                            RDGMVO algorithm follows closely behind with a value of 80.99%, showing competitive         coverage
                              problem, outperforming
                            performance      in terms of other   compared
                                                            coverage         algorithms.
                                                                       efficiency.  The APSM-jSO algorithm achieves a coverage
                            value of 71.90%, performing slightly better than the DCS algorithm, which achieved a value
                             Table 8. The statistical results of MSDCS and competition algorithms for solving WSN.
                            of 64.46%. The convergence curves show that the MSDCS algorithm is able to find the
                                   Algorithm
                            best coverage    scheme quickly.      Best
                                                                     The boxplot shows Meanthat MSDCS has the   Std best robustness
                                     MSDCS                       85.95%               83.64%                   0.026
                            and provides a more centralized distribution of solutions. These results confirm that the
                                       DCS                       64.46%               60.08%                   0.025
                            proposed MSDCS is the most efficient approach to solving the sensor network coverage
                                   RDGMVO                        80.99%               78.93%                   0.018
                            problem,   outperforming other
                                   APSM-jSO                        compared algorithms.
                                                                 71.90%               68.51%                   0.022




                            Figure   11.Node
                              Figure11.      deploymentofofMSDCS
                                        Node deployment     MSDCS  and
                                                                 and     its competitors.
                                                                     its competitors.

                            Table 8. The statistical results of MSDCS and competition algorithms for solving WSN.

                                   Algorithm                       Best                      Mean                         Std
                                    MSDCS                        85.95%                      83.64%                      0.026
                                     DCS                         64.46%                      60.08%                      0.025
                                   RDGMVO                        80.99%                      78.93%                      0.018
                                   APSM-jSO                      71.90%                      68.51%                      0.022
Biomimetics 2025, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                    21 of 37

Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                  21 of 41




                                 Figure 12. Convergence graph and boxplots of MSDCS and its competitors.
                                 Figure 12. Convergence graph and boxplots of MSDCS and its competitors.
                                 5.2. Constrained Engineering Optimization
                                       In this subsection,
                                  5.2. Constrained   Engineering we Optimization
                                                                      verify the performance of MSDCS through 10 constrained
                                 optimization     problems. The
                                        In this subsection,          detailsthe
                                                                we verify     of performance
                                                                                 these constrained     problems
                                                                                                 of MSDCS            are displayed
                                                                                                                through                in Table
                                                                                                                            10 constrained     op-9.
                                 When     applying   meta-heuristic     algorithms    to solve  constrained     optimization
                                  timization problems. The details of these constrained problems are displayed in Table 9.        problems,    the
                                 handling     of constraints
                                  When applying                 is crucial.algorithms
                                                       meta-heuristic        Commonly    toused
                                                                                            solvemethods      include
                                                                                                    constrained          the penaltyproblems,
                                                                                                                      optimization      function
                                 method,    repair  strategy,   and  rule-based   constraint   processing.    The
                                  the handling of constraints is crucial. Commonly used methods include the penalty penalty    function  method
                                                                                                                                             func-
                                 converts   the   degree   of constraint   violation   into a penalty   term   to   be  added
                                  tion method, repair strategy, and rule-based constraint processing. The penalty function      to the  objective
                                 function;   the repair
                                  method converts      thestrategy
                                                             degreerepairs    the infeasible
                                                                      of constraint   violationsolution   into a feasible
                                                                                                  into a penalty      term tosolution;
                                                                                                                                be added andto the
                                                                                                                                                the
                                 rule-based    constraint    processing     utilizes the  problem    rules  to  filter  or adjust
                                  objective function; the repair strategy repairs the infeasible solution into a feasible solu-     the solution.
                                 This
                                  tion; paper
                                         and theadopts    the penalty
                                                   rule-based            function
                                                                 constraint          method
                                                                              processing        to convert
                                                                                            utilizes           a constrained
                                                                                                      the problem                 optimization
                                                                                                                        rules to filter or adjust
                                 problem     into  an  unconstrained      optimization      problem.    That    is,  a
                                  the solution. This paper adopts the penalty function method to convert a constrained large   penalty   valueop-is
                                 imposed
                                  timization onproblem
                                                 the solution
                                                           into when    it violates the
                                                                  an unconstrained        constraints. problem.
                                                                                        optimization     Table 10 summarizes          thepenalty
                                                                                                                       That is, a large    results
                                 obtained    by   MSDCS,     DCS,    AE, LSHADE,       APSM-jSO,      RIME,    RDGMVO,
                                  value is imposed on the solution when it violates the constraints. Table 10 summarizes the    QIO,   MTVSCA,
                                 MRFO,     and EOSMA
                                  results obtained           for solving
                                                        by MSDCS,       DCS,the AE,
                                                                                 constrained
                                                                                      LSHADE,   optimization
                                                                                                   APSM-jSO,problems             and visualizes
                                                                                                                     RIME, RDGMVO,           QIO,
                                 the  ranking    based   on   the  average   values   as shown    in  Figure
                                  MTVSCA, MRFO, and EOSMA for solving the constrained optimization problems    13.   According     to Figureand 13,
                                 MSEDO
                                  visualizes provided    the best
                                               the ranking     basedsolution     on sevenvalues
                                                                       on the average        constraint   problems
                                                                                                   as shown              and 13.
                                                                                                                 in Figure     theAccording
                                                                                                                                    second-best   to
                                 solution   on   three constraint     problems.    In sharp   contrast,  DCS
                                  Figure 13, MSEDO provided the best solution on seven constraint problems and   ranks    last on  all problems.
                                                                                                                                          the sec-
                                 This   indicates
                                  ond-best          thaton
                                              solution    thethree
                                                               proposed     improvement
                                                                     constraint   problems.strategies      are effective
                                                                                               In sharp contrast,        DCSinranks
                                                                                                                                 enhancing
                                                                                                                                       last ontheall
                                 performance      of DCS    and   providing   MSEDO      with  the  ability  to
                                  problems. This indicates that the proposed improvement strategies are effectivesolve   real-world    problems.
                                                                                                                                            in en-
                                 hancing the performance of DCS and providing MSEDO with the ability to solve real-
                                 Table 9. Ten constrained engineering optimization problems.
                                 world problems.
                                     Problem                          Name                              D
                                 Table 9. Ten constrainedTension/compression
                                       CE01               engineering optimization problems.
                                                                                spring  design problem                                 3
                                        CE02
                                      Problem                       Pressure vessel design
                                                                                        Nameproblem                                    4     D
                                        CE03                        Three-bar truss design problem                                     2
                                       CE01                      Tension/compression spring design problem                                    3
                                        CE04                         Welded beam design problem                                       4
                                       CE02
                                        CE05                        SpeedPressure
                                                                            reducervessel
                                                                                     designdesign problem
                                                                                             problem                                  7       4
                                       CE03
                                        CE06                          Gear train design problemproblem
                                                                         Three-bar   truss design                                     4       2
                                       CE04
                                        CE07                              Welded
                                                                    Rolling  elementbeam  design
                                                                                       bearing    problem
                                                                                               design                                 10      4
                                        CE08
                                       CE05                        Cantilever
                                                                         Speedbeam     design
                                                                                 reducer      problem
                                                                                           design problem                             5       7
                                        CE09
                                       CE06                    Multiple diskGear
                                                                             clutch  brake
                                                                                  train     design
                                                                                        design     problem
                                                                                                problem                                5      4
                                        CE10
                                       CE07                            Step-cone   pulley  problem
                                                                         Rolling element bearing design                                5     10
                                          CE08                           Cantilever beam design problem                                       5
                                          CE09                       Multiple disk clutch brake design problem                                5
                                          CE10                               Step-cone pulley problem                                         5
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                            22 of 41



                               Table 10. The statistics results of MSDCS and competition algorithms solving constrained engineering optimization problems.

    Function           Index    MSDCS           DCS            AE          LSHADE       APSM-jSO         RIME         RDGMVO           QIO         MTVSCA          MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best     1.2671E-02    2.4083E-02    1.3191E-02     1.2907E-02    1.2871E-02     1.3529E-02    1.3044E-02     1.2921E-02     1.3906E-02    1.3057E-02    1.2846E-02
                       Mean     1.2860E-02    7.3531E+03    1.4128E-02     1.3296E-02    1.3054E-02     1.6235E-02    1.3356E-02     1.3383E-02     1.6551E-02    1.3777E-02    1.3695E-02
      CE1
                        Std     2.8359E-04    1.6442E+04    1.0954E-03     3.2821E-04    1.4931E-04     2.9673E-03    4.1936E-04     4.1607E-04     2.4984E-03    7.4353E-04    9.4204E-04
                       Rank          1            11             8              3             2              9             4              5             10             7             6
                       Best    5.8701E+03     1.7715E+05   6.6293E+03      6.3630E+03   6.0647E+03      6.0556E+03   7.6793E+03      6.3236E+03    1.2028E+04     6.5909E+03    7.1900E+03
                       Mean     5.9511E+03    3.2762E+05    8.0280E+03     6.5037E+03    6.5380E+03     6.9088E+03    8.3425E+03     6.8454E+03     1.3060E+04    7.0169E+03    8.3431E+03
      CE2
                        Std    1.6259E+02     1.9473E+05   1.1292E+03      2.4059E+02   4.8136E+02      7.6999E+02   1.1312E+03      3.2487E+02    1.1049E+03     5.8863E+02    1.0649E+03
                       Rank          1            11             7              2             3              5             8              4             10             6             9
                       Best    2.6389E+02     2.6395E+02   2.6391E+02      2.6390E+02   2.6390E+02      2.6394E+02   2.6389E+02      2.6389E+02    2.6405E+02     2.6389E+02    2.6390E+02
                       Mean     2.6389E+02    2.6468E+02    2.6393E+02     2.6390E+02    2.6392E+02     2.6442E+02    2.6394E+02     2.6390E+02     2.6433E+02    2.6394E+02    2.6402E+02
      CE3
                        Std     2.8422E-14    1.0184E+00    1.4357E-02     5.1566E-03    2.7481E-02     7.0931E-01    5.5071E-02     2.6617E-03     2.9947E-01    4.1346E-02    1.6598E-01
                       Rank          1            11             5              3             4             10             7              2              9             6             8
                       Best    1.6928E+00     2.2522E+00   1.8755E+00      1.7093E+00   1.7255E+00      1.7528E+00   1.8060E+00      1.7362E+00    1.8941E+00     1.7390E+00    1.7520E+00
                       Mean     1.6928E+00    3.1607E+00    1.9597E+00     1.7362E+00    1.7744E+00     1.9554E+00    1.9708E+00     1.7493E+00     2.0044E+00    1.7759E+00    1.8056E+00
      CE4
                        Std     6.0366E-07    7.2634E-01    5.6745E-02     2.1821E-02    7.5693E-02     2.3237E-01    2.3252E-01     1.4943E-02     8.2997E-02    4.0763E-02    4.0271E-02
                       Rank          1            11             8              2             4              7             9              3             10             5             6
                       Best    2.9936E+03     3.1674E+03   2.8842E+03      2.9955E+03   2.9937E+03      3.0006E+03   3.0000E+03      3.0179E+03    3.0581E+03     3.0126E+03    3.0136E+03
                       Mean     2.9936E+03    3.6127E+03    2.9817E+03     2.9964E+03    2.9937E+03     3.0081E+03    3.0054E+03     3.0395E+03     3.0836E+03    3.0205E+03    3.0196E+03
      CE5
                        Std     1.2705E-08    5.4941E+02   8.1403E+01      5.7719E-01    4.6451E-02     1.4537E+01   3.5675E+00      1.7883E+01    2.8303E+01     6.8185E+00    4.7228E+00
                       Rank          2            11             1              4             3              6             5              9             10             8             7
                       Best     2.7009E-12    6.5257E-08    2.7009E-12     2.7009E-12    2.7009E-12     2.3078E-11    3.0676E-10     2.7009E-12     9.7457E-10    2.3078E-11    2.3078E-11
                       Mean     2.5107E-10    2.9280E-04    1.6136E-09     1.3787E-09    1.8025E-09     1.6091E-09    1.8218E-09     6.9316E-10     1.5824E-08    1.0321E-09    1.4391E-09
      CE6
                        Std     5.2127E-10    2.6088E-04    1.0773E-09     9.9970E-10    2.8168E-09     1.6964E-09    1.6550E-09     6.3136E-10     3.1042E-08    9.6274E-10    1.2581E-09
                       Rank          1            11             7              4             8              6             9              2             10             3             5
                       Best    -2.4358E+05   -1.2042E+05   -1.1897E+03    -2.4358E+05   -2.4358E+05    -2.4358E+05   -2.4358E+05    -2.3030E+05    -2.2659E+05   -2.3612E+05   -2.4144E+05
                       Mean    -2.4358E+05    1.5159E+06   -1.0860E+03    -2.4356E+05   -2.4358E+05    -2.4314E+05   -2.4358E+05    -2.2349E+05    -2.2243E+05   -2.3002E+05   -2.4025E+05
      CE7
                        Std     5.8147E-07    1.8087E+06   5.8056E+01      2.7780E+01    1.2992E-09     4.4409E+02   5.3962E+00      8.2081E+03    4.6563E+03     7.9789E+03    8.0731E+02
                       Rank          2            11            10              4             1              5             3              8              9             7             6
                       Best    1.3400E+00     2.0342E+00   1.4263E+00      1.3467E+00   1.3511E+00      1.3525E+00   1.4144E+00      1.3409E+00    1.4359E+00     1.3426E+00    1.3554E+00
                       Mean     1.3400E+00    3.1656E+00    1.4467E+00     1.3601E+00    1.3577E+00     1.4106E+00    1.6551E+00     1.3430E+00     1.5526E+00    1.3496E+00    1.3609E+00
      CE8
                        Std     1.2511E-07    1.1175E+00    1.9849E-02     1.4979E-02    7.8764E-03     4.2675E-02    2.0798E-01     2.9635E-03     9.4868E-02    9.2797E-03    4.3679E-03
                       Rank          1            11             8              5             4              7            10         2.0000E+00     9.0000E+00    3.0000E+00   6.0000E+00
                       Best    3.9247E+08     3.9247E+08   2.5199E+08      3.9247E+08   3.9247E+08      3.9247E+08   3.9247E+08      3.9247E+08    3.9247E+08     3.9247E+08    3.9247E+08
                       Mean     3.9247E+08    3.9474E+08    2.5245E+08     3.9247E+08    3.9247E+08     3.9247E+08    3.9247E+08     3.9247E+08     3.9247E+08    3.9247E+08    3.9247E+08
      CE9
                        Std    0.0000E+00     4.5209E+06   8.8091E+05      0.0000E+00   0.0000E+00      0.0000E+00   0.0000E+00      9.2258E-02    1.8781E+03     3.4870E-01    0.0000E+00
                       Rank          2            11             1              2             2              2             2              8             10             9             2
                       Best    1.6086E+01     1.7337E+04   2.2769E+01      1.7146E+01   1.6594E+01      1.6282E+01   1.6886E+01      1.6576E+01    7.8319E+01     1.6735E+01    1.7144E+01
                       Mean     1.6086E+01    7.0920E+08    8.0915E+01     1.7397E+01    1.7053E+01     1.6967E+01    1.9526E+01     1.6696E+01     1.4682E+02    1.7109E+01    1.7557E+01
      CE10
                        Std     4.8761E-07    1.3571E+09   1.0977E+02      3.2555E-01    4.5030E-01     5.6418E-01   3.9405E+00      1.1886E-01    7.2506E+01     3.1909E-01    4.4901E-01
                       Rank          1            11             9              6             4              3             8              2             10             5             7
            Std 0.0000E+00 4.5209E+06 8.8091E+05 0.0000E+00 0.0000E+00 0.0000E+00 0.0000E+00 9.2258E-02 1.8781E+03 3.4870E-01 0.0000E+00
           Rank        2         11          1          2          2          2          2          8         10          9          2
            Best 1.6086E+01 1.7337E+04 2.2769E+01 1.7146E+01 1.6594E+01 1.6282E+01 1.6886E+01 1.6576E+01 7.8319E+01 1.6735E+01 1.7144E+01
           Mean 1.6086E+01 7.0920E+08 8.0915E+01 1.7397E+01 1.7053E+01 1.6967E+01 1.9526E+01 1.6696E+01 1.4682E+02 1.7109E+01 1.7557E+01
  CE10
Biomimetics Std 10,
            2025,    260
                  4.8761E-07                                                                                                        23 of 41
                             1.3571E+09 1.0977E+02 3.2555E-01 4.5030E-01 5.6418E-01 3.9405E+00 1.1886E-01 7.2506E+01 3.1909E-01 4.4901E-01
           Rank        1         11          9          6          4          3          8          2         10          5          7




                                             The ranking
                                  Figure 13. The ranking heatmaps
                                                         heatmaps of
                                                                  of MSDCS
                                                                     MSDCS and
                                                                           and comparison
                                                                               comparison algorithms
                                                                                          algorithms solving
                                                                                                     solving constrained
                                                                                                             constrained engi-
                                                                                                                         engi-
                                  neering optimization
                                  neering optimization problems.
                                                       problems.

                                  6. Conclusions
                                       This paper presents a DCS algorithm variant, called MSDCS, which achieves DCS
                                  performance improvement by integrating three improvement strategies. Firstly, a collabora-
                                  tive development mechanism is proposed to organically integrate the estimation allocation
                                  algorithm and DCS. Through the guiding effect of the dominant population, it makes up
                                  for the defects that the DCS algorithm has, such as an insufficient exploratory ability and
                                  the fact that it can easily fall into local optimization. Secondly, a new population evaluation
                                  strategy is proposed to realize the coordinated transition of development and exploration
                                  through the comprehensive evaluation of adaptation and distance. Finally, a linear popula-
                                  tion size reduction strategy is integrated into the distributed control system to enhance the
                                  exploration ability and extensively search the solution space by maintaining a large popu-
                                  lation size at the initial stage. The proposed MSDCS algorithm is validated on the CEC2017
                                  test set, a wireless sensor network coverage problem, and an engineering-constrained
                                  optimization problem, and the following conclusions are presented.
                                       On the CEC2017 test suite, we obtained the optimal parameter settings through param-
                                  eter sensitivity analysis and verified the effectiveness of the improved strategies through
                                  ablation experiments. The excellent performance of MSDCS is validated by comparing it
                                  with other advanced basic and improved algorithms and applying Friedman’s test and
                                  Wilcoxon rank sum test. On the wireless sensor network coverage problem, MSDCS
                                  provides the best coverage solution with an 85.95% coverage rate. In addition, MSDCS
                                  performs well on 10 engineering-constrained optimization problems, ranking first in 7
                                  of them. In summary, the MSDCS proposed in this paper is a promising metaheuristic
                                  algorithm variant. Certainly, MSDCS has some limitations. Firstly, the parameters of
                                  MSDCS need to be determined manually, and its generalized optimal parameter settings
                                  on a wider range of problems need further research. Secondly, MSDCS does not perform
                                  as well on high-dimensional problems as it does on low-dimensional problems, which
                                  may be caused by the mutual constraints between the too small number of populations
                                  at the later stage and the sufficient number of populations required by the synergistic
                                  development mechanism. This suggests that MSDCS needs to further improve its ability
                                  to solve high-dimensional problems. In addition, the optimal parameters need to be de-
                                  termined experimentally, and such fixed parameters may weaken the algorithm’s search
                                  capability, leading to premature convergence and, in some cases, to local optima. Finally, it
                                  is necessary to develop a multi-objective version of MSDCS, which is due to the fact that
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                       24 of 41



                            real-world optimization problems often have multiple objectives to satisfy and are difficult
                            to achieve at the same time.

                            Author Contributions: Conceptualization, X.C. and C.Z.; methodology, X.C. and C.Z.; software, X.C.;
                            validation, X.C. and C.Z.; formal analysis, X.C.; investigation, X.C.; resources, X.C.; data curation, X.C.;
                            writing—original draft preparation, X.C.; writing—review and editing, X.C. and C.Z.; visualization,
                            X.C.; supervision, C.Z.; project administration, C.Z.; funding acquisition, X.C. and C.Z. All authors
                            have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

                            Funding: This research was funded by the Major Humanities and Social Sciences Research Projects
                            in Zhejiang Higher Education Institutions (Grant Number: 2024QN018) and the Zhejiang Provincial
                            Philosophy and Social Sciences Planning Special Project on Higher Education Basic Research Funding
                            Reform (Grant Number: 25NDJC153YBMS).

                            Data Availability Statement: Data will be made available on request.

                            Acknowledgments: The authors would like to thank their anonymous reviewers and the editor for
                            their careful reviews and constructive suggestions to help us.

                            Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                          25 of 41



                               Appendix A

                               Table A1. The statistical results of MSDCS with different strategies for solving CEC2017 (D = 10).

   Function          Index     DCS         DCS-PES      DCS-LPSR      DCS-CDM        MSDCS         Function       Index             DCS    DCS-PES     DCS-LPSR    DCS-CDM     MSDCS
                     Best    5.749E+09    1.002E+02     1.730E+06      1.589E+02     1.000E+02                    Best         1.812E+03   1.731E+03   1.739E+03   1.706E+03   1.708E+03
       F1            Mean    1.416E+10    1.006E+02     6.761E+06      1.959E+03     1.000E+02       F16          Mean         2.139E+03   1.741E+03   1.750E+03   1.722E+03   1.727E+03
                      Std    4.455E+09    3.216E-01     3.158E+06      2.124E+03     1.786E-04                     Std         1.598E+02   6.389E+00   7.504E+00   9.146E+00   8.155E+00
                     Best    2.182E+04    3.000E+02     1.777E+03      3.000E+02     3.000E+02                    Best         2.449E+06   1.802E+03   6.754E+03   1.803E+03   1.800E+03
       F2            Mean    4.706E+04    3.000E+02     8.772E+03      3.003E+02     3.000E+02       F17          Mean         2.549E+08   1.810E+03   1.515E+04   1.824E+03   1.805E+03
                      Std    1.740E+04    9.349E-06     3.893E+03      3.293E-01     2.735E-09                     Std         2.261E+08   6.262E+00   6.760E+03   9.643E+00   7.111E+00
                     Best    7.774E+02    4.002E+02     4.054E+02      4.005E+02     4.001E+02                    Best         2.783E+03   1.901E+03   1.942E+03   1.901E+03   1.900E+03
       F3            Mean    1.774E+03    4.011E+02     4.120E+02      4.024E+02     4.007E+02       F18          Mean         8.309E+06   1.903E+03   2.355E+03   1.903E+03   1.901E+03
                      Std    6.895E+02    5.480E-01     5.797E+00      7.140E-01     4.802E-01                     Std         8.178E+06   6.232E-01   5.995E+02   1.133E+00   5.817E-01
                     Best    5.899E+02    5.098E+02     5.109E+02      5.115E+02     5.103E+02                    Best         2.263E+03   2.015E+03   2.021E+03   2.005E+03   2.008E+03
       F4            Mean    6.366E+02    5.207E+02     5.234E+02      5.170E+02     5.162E+02       F19          Mean         2.375E+03   2.034E+03   2.038E+03   2.014E+03   2.020E+03
                      Std    2.293E+01    5.161E+00     4.691E+00      3.418E+00     3.861E+00                     Std         5.961E+01   8.083E+00   6.878E+00   6.658E+00   6.720E+00
                     Best    6.465E+02    6.000E+02     6.004E+02      6.000E+02     6.000E+02                    Best         2.278E+03   2.200E+03   2.204E+03   2.200E+03   2.200E+03
       F5            Mean    6.786E+02    6.000E+02     6.009E+02      6.000E+02     6.000E+02       F20          Mean         2.406E+03   2.271E+03   2.230E+03   2.256E+03   2.264E+03
                      Std    1.370E+01    1.867E-03     2.781E-01      2.636E-03     3.299E-05                     Std         4.711E+01   6.302E+01   4.716E+01   6.132E+01   6.064E+01
                     Best    8.880E+02    7.262E+02     7.335E+02      7.228E+02     7.203E+02                    Best         2.557E+03   2.200E+03   2.267E+03   2.200E+03   2.300E+03
       F6            Mean    9.093E+02    7.329E+02     7.499E+02      7.326E+02     7.281E+02       F21          Mean         3.554E+03   2.297E+03   2.304E+03   2.296E+03   2.300E+03
                      Std    1.523E+01    4.019E+00     6.364E+00      5.188E+00     4.288E+00                     Std         3.922E+02   1.843E+01   1.082E+01   2.376E+01   5.324E-01
                     Best    8.570E+02    8.075E+02     8.144E+02      8.093E+02     8.079E+02                    Best         2.736E+03   2.610E+03   2.617E+03   2.602E+03   2.604E+03
       F7            Mean    9.033E+02    8.210E+02     8.264E+02      8.169E+02     8.165E+02       F22          Mean         2.796E+03   2.619E+03   2.625E+03   2.614E+03   2.613E+03
                      Std    1.358E+01    4.894E+00     5.167E+00      3.665E+00     4.026E+00                     Std         2.490E+01   4.661E+00   3.787E+00   4.373E+00   4.436E+00
                     Best    2.591E+03    9.000E+02     9.036E+02      9.000E+02     9.000E+02                    Best         2.846E+03   2.500E+03   2.515E+03   2.500E+03   2.500E+03
       F8            Mean    3.425E+03    9.000E+02     9.109E+02      9.000E+02     9.000E+02       F23          Mean         2.932E+03   2.739E+03   2.571E+03   2.702E+03   2.722E+03
                      Std    4.504E+02    6.786E-07     4.790E+00      8.294E-02     2.978E-12                     Std         4.990E+01   4.545E+01   6.942E+01   9.186E+01   6.047E+01
                     Best    2.458E+03    1.499E+03     1.709E+03      1.230E+03     1.437E+03                    Best         2.986E+03   2.898E+03   2.906E+03   2.898E+03   2.898E+03
       F9            Mean    3.058E+03    2.068E+03     2.049E+03      1.742E+03     1.882E+03       F24          Mean         3.810E+03   2.924E+03   2.923E+03   2.926E+03   2.927E+03
                      Std    3.212E+02    1.870E+02     1.626E+02      2.008E+02     1.643E+02                     Std         4.016E+02   2.295E+01   1.407E+01   2.328E+01   2.232E+01
                     Best    1.465E+03    1.104E+03     1.137E+03      1.102E+03     1.103E+03                    Best         3.845E+03   2.900E+03   2.783E+03   2.900E+03   2.900E+03
      F10            Mean    7.862E+03    1.106E+03     1.164E+03      1.105E+03     1.104E+03       F25          Mean         4.601E+03   2.900E+03   2.931E+03   2.902E+03   2.900E+03
                      Std    5.270E+03    1.243E+00     1.740E+01      1.684E+00     8.064E-01                     Std         3.360E+02   4.062E-04   3.732E+01   8.608E+00   2.980E-07
                     Best    1.464E+08    1.230E+03     3.190E+05      2.978E+03     1.200E+03                    Best         3.168E+03   3.090E+03   3.093E+03   3.089E+03   3.090E+03
      F11            Mean    1.071E+09    1.386E+03     3.553E+06      1.137E+04     1.395E+03       F26          Mean         3.319E+03   3.093E+03   3.098E+03   3.092E+03   3.094E+03
                      Std    6.320E+08    1.089E+02     2.030E+06      9.209E+03     1.311E+02                     Std         7.996E+01   1.946E+00   2.439E+00   2.490E+00   1.543E+00
                     Best    2.253E+05    1.303E+03     1.973E+03      1.303E+03     1.301E+03                    Best         3.464E+03   3.100E+03   3.090E+03   2.800E+03   3.100E+03
      F12            Mean    8.389E+07    1.310E+03     9.609E+03      1.317E+03     1.309E+03       F27          Mean         3.851E+03   3.197E+03   3.209E+03   3.159E+03   3.168E+03
                      Std    8.428E+07    3.546E+00     6.426E+03      7.651E+00     4.157E+00                     Std         1.342E+02   1.403E+02   8.947E+01   1.437E+02   1.257E+02
                     Best    1.654E+03    1.409E+03     1.441E+03      1.402E+03     1.401E+03                    Best         3.419E+03   3.163E+03   3.188E+03   3.166E+03   3.153E+03
      F13            Mean    2.840E+05    1.416E+03     1.596E+03      1.416E+03     1.410E+03       F28          Mean         3.744E+03   3.191E+03   3.227E+03   3.186E+03   3.180E+03
                      Std    6.030E+05    4.346E+00     2.724E+02      9.981E+00     6.457E+00                     Std         1.483E+02   1.607E+01   2.012E+01   1.631E+01   1.488E+01
                     Best    1.531E+04    1.501E+03     1.565E+03      1.501E+03     1.501E+03                    Best         3.125E+06   3.411E+03   3.646E+04   3.586E+03   3.415E+03
      F14            Mean    2.000E+06    1.503E+03     2.013E+03      1.504E+03     1.502E+03       F29          Mean         7.109E+07   4.526E+04   4.062E+05   1.322E+05   1.140E+05
                      Std    4.195E+06    8.736E-01     4.724E+02      1.351E+00     7.093E-01                     Std         4.385E+07   2.286E+05   4.074E+05   3.358E+05   3.433E+05
                     Best    1.926E+03    1.604E+03     1.621E+03      1.602E+03     1.602E+03
      F15            Mean    2.485E+03    1.618E+03     1.657E+03      1.617E+03     1.609E+03
                      Std    2.084E+02    1.396E+01     3.639E+01      3.157E+01     1.120E+01
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                         26 of 41



                               Table A2. The statistical results of MSDCS with different strategies for solving CEC2017 (D = 30).

   Function          Index     DCS        DCS-PES      DCS-LPSR      DCS-CDM         MSDCS        Function        Index         DCS       DCS-PES     DCS-LPSR    DCS-CDM     MSDCS
                     Best    6.968E+10    2.270E+02     4.068E+07     3.478E+02     1.279E+02                     Best        3.739E+03   1.923E+03   1.984E+03   1.815E+03   1.847E+03
      F1             Mean    8.010E+10    2.605E+03     8.142E+07     3.932E+03     2.443E+03        F16          Mean        5.844E+03   2.098E+03   2.273E+03   2.006E+03   2.055E+03
                      Std    2.634E+09    2.095E+03     2.582E+07     3.772E+03     2.807E+03                      Std        2.641E+03   1.038E+02   1.194E+02   1.402E+02   1.213E+02
                     Best    9.466E+04    3.021E+02     8.756E+04     7.698E+02     3.008E+02                     Best        9.494E+06   1.830E+03   1.766E+05   2.951E+03   1.843E+03
      F2             Mean    3.768E+05    4.010E+02     1.139E+05     1.498E+03     3.422E+02        F17          Mean        1.955E+08   1.887E+03   1.480E+06   1.669E+04   1.888E+03
                      Std    5.610E+05    9.564E+01     1.740E+04     6.535E+02     6.647E+01                      Std        1.562E+08   4.374E+01   6.999E+05   1.161E+04   3.026E+01
                     Best    9.913E+03    4.186E+02     5.456E+02     4.061E+02     4.064E+02                     Best        9.253E+08   1.923E+03   2.996E+05   1.951E+03   1.913E+03
      F3             Mean    2.296E+04    4.904E+02     5.803E+02     4.899E+02     4.879E+02        F18          Mean        3.318E+09   1.942E+03   1.311E+06   2.170E+03   1.932E+03
                      Std    2.739E+03    2.344E+01     1.761E+01     2.310E+01     2.174E+01                      Std        6.716E+08   1.103E+01   9.060E+05   4.597E+02   9.265E+00
                     Best    1.007E+03    6.126E+02     6.440E+02     5.967E+02     6.084E+02                     Best        3.027E+03   2.257E+03   2.481E+03   2.128E+03   2.132E+03
      F4             Mean    1.017E+03    6.452E+02     6.690E+02     6.300E+02     6.266E+02        F19          Mean        3.451E+03   2.511E+03   2.615E+03   2.376E+03   2.375E+03
                      Std    1.419E+01    1.360E+01     1.091E+01     1.403E+01     1.037E+01                      Std        1.604E+02   1.353E+02   7.827E+01   1.403E+02   1.089E+02
                     Best    6.882E+02    6.000E+02     6.023E+02     6.000E+02     6.000E+02                     Best        2.705E+03   2.437E+03   2.441E+03   2.400E+03   2.402E+03
      F5             Mean    7.103E+02    6.001E+02     6.036E+02     6.001E+02     6.000E+02        F20          Mean        2.849E+03   2.450E+03   2.468E+03   2.428E+03   2.426E+03
                      Std    1.028E+01    1.318E-02     7.271E-01     8.160E-02     2.205E-03                      Std        5.269E+01   8.612E+00   1.269E+01   1.389E+01   1.119E+01
                     Best    1.587E+03    8.623E+02     9.010E+02     8.406E+02     8.468E+02                     Best        9.019E+03   2.300E+03   2.322E+03   2.300E+03   2.300E+03
      F6             Mean    1.620E+03    8.816E+02     9.275E+02     8.689E+02     8.623E+02        F21          Mean        1.072E+04   2.300E+03   2.328E+03   2.301E+03   2.300E+03
                      Std    3.374E+01    1.017E+01     1.375E+01     1.263E+01     9.628E+00                      Std        7.906E+02   2.376E-02   3.647E+00   1.280E+00   4.113E-04
                     Best    1.237E+03    9.322E+02     9.394E+02     8.595E+02     9.080E+02                     Best        3.493E+03   2.771E+03   2.778E+03   2.717E+03   2.742E+03
      F7             Mean    1.260E+03    9.491E+02     9.684E+02     9.306E+02     9.286E+02        F22          Mean        3.664E+03   2.796E+03   2.817E+03   2.767E+03   2.770E+03
                      Std    1.959E+01    7.717E+00     1.223E+01     1.780E+01     1.019E+01                      Std        1.150E+02   1.161E+01   1.327E+01   1.953E+01   1.210E+01
                     Best    1.574E+04    9.000E+02     9.963E+02     9.001E+02     9.000E+02                     Best        3.609E+03   2.928E+03   2.970E+03   2.850E+03   2.852E+03
      F8             Mean    2.080E+04    9.000E+02     1.171E+03     9.070E+02     9.001E+02        F23          Mean        3.962E+03   2.959E+03   2.992E+03   2.917E+03   2.920E+03
                      Std    1.933E+03    4.982E-02     1.166E+02     6.199E+00     1.970E-01                      Std        1.995E+02   1.334E+01   1.053E+01   3.683E+01   2.926E+01
                     Best    7.817E+03    6.502E+03     6.390E+03     5.360E+03     5.699E+03                     Best        7.213E+03   2.887E+03   2.913E+03   2.887E+03   2.887E+03
      F9             Mean    9.176E+03    7.156E+03     6.929E+03     6.289E+03     6.607E+03        F24          Mean        7.285E+03   2.887E+03   2.942E+03   2.888E+03   2.887E+03
                      Std    7.033E+02    3.388E+02     2.581E+02     3.419E+02     2.801E+02                      Std        1.365E+02   3.421E-01   2.009E+01   3.119E+00   2.911E-01
                     Best    8.764E+03    1.112E+03     1.425E+03     1.144E+03     1.109E+03                     Best        1.058E+04   4.315E+03   2.936E+03   2.900E+03   2.900E+03
      F10            Mean    2.074E+04    1.160E+03     1.637E+03     1.205E+03     1.142E+03        F25          Mean        1.338E+04   4.918E+03   4.634E+03   4.642E+03   4.440E+03
                      Std    6.427E+03    3.859E+01     1.602E+02     4.007E+01     2.644E+01                      Std        1.373E+03   1.929E+02   8.457E+02   4.237E+02   4.810E+02
                     Best    1.101E+10    4.512E+03     6.760E+06     4.065E+04     4.828E+03                     Best        3.893E+03   3.186E+03   3.234E+03   3.199E+03   3.175E+03
      F11            Mean    1.799E+10    1.914E+04     2.851E+07     2.323E+05     1.535E+04        F26          Mean        4.811E+03   3.211E+03   3.263E+03   3.212E+03   3.203E+03
                      Std    3.544E+09    1.150E+04     1.051E+07     2.533E+05     7.828E+03                      Std        3.550E+02   1.067E+01   1.419E+01   7.533E+00   9.145E+00
                     Best    6.002E+09    1.455E+03     1.352E+06     2.600E+03     1.387E+03                     Best        8.047E+03   3.173E+03   3.263E+03   3.206E+03   3.108E+03
      F12            Mean    1.465E+10    1.676E+03     5.353E+06     1.121E+04     1.625E+03        F27          Mean        9.416E+03   3.205E+03   3.309E+03   3.222E+03   3.200E+03
                      Std    4.760E+09    1.372E+02     2.878E+06     7.866E+03     1.628E+02                      Std        4.558E+02   1.300E+01   2.360E+01   1.533E+01   2.518E+01
                     Best    3.317E+06    1.444E+03     8.872E+03     1.452E+03     1.439E+03                     Best        6.165E+03   3.642E+03   3.955E+03   3.411E+03   3.488E+03
      F13            Mean    1.707E+07    1.473E+03     5.651E+04     1.557E+03     1.461E+03        F28          Mean        1.026E+04   3.825E+03   4.226E+03   3.640E+03   3.657E+03
                      Std    1.309E+07    1.117E+01     3.254E+04     5.019E+01     1.223E+01                      Std        3.517E+03   1.139E+02   1.255E+02   1.301E+02   9.849E+01
                     Best    5.795E+08    1.527E+03     1.077E+05     1.654E+03     1.524E+03                     Best        3.403E+08   5.623E+03   4.805E+05   8.071E+03   5.380E+03
      F14            Mean    3.195E+09    1.584E+03     7.857E+05     2.042E+03     1.566E+03        F29          Mean        2.340E+09   6.232E+03   1.897E+06   1.351E+04   5.957E+03
                      Std    1.372E+09    3.916E+01     4.762E+05     2.299E+02     3.286E+01                      Std        9.410E+08   4.660E+02   1.062E+06   4.943E+03   4.161E+02
                     Best    4.748E+03    2.665E+03     2.722E+03     2.149E+03     2.286E+03
      F15            Mean    7.231E+03    2.949E+03     3.085E+03     2.759E+03     2.810E+03
                      Std    1.036E+03    1.552E+02     1.883E+02     2.743E+02     1.825E+02
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                         27 of 41



                               Table A3. The statistical results of MSDCS with different strategies for solving CEC2017 (D = 50).

   Function          Index     DCS        DCS-PES      DCS-LPSR      DCS-CDM         MSDCS        Function        Index         DCS       DCS-PES     DCS-LPSR    DCS-CDM     MSDCS
                     Best    1.349E+11    3.291E+03     8.262E+07     2.836E+03     1.306E+02                     Best        1.118E+04   3.134E+03   3.315E+03   2.852E+03   3.068E+03
      F1             Mean    1.351E+11    1.005E+04     2.203E+08     1.344E+04     2.852E+03        F16          Mean        1.183E+05   3.554E+03   3.797E+03   3.274E+03   3.424E+03
                      Std    7.063E+08    3.780E+03     9.252E+07     7.381E+03     2.927E+03                      Std        6.094E+04   1.978E+02   2.333E+02   2.427E+02   1.657E+02
                     Best    2.546E+05    2.017E+03     1.664E+05     5.762E+03     2.573E+03                     Best        5.761E+07   1.972E+03   1.613E+06   1.219E+04   1.998E+03
      F2             Mean    1.568E+06    5.768E+03     2.370E+05     1.399E+04     5.523E+03        F17          Mean        3.693E+08   2.176E+03   4.114E+06   7.666E+04   2.186E+03
                      Std    4.582E+06    2.229E+03     2.333E+04     5.243E+03     1.718E+03                      Std        2.065E+08   1.284E+02   1.920E+06   4.934E+04   1.588E+02
                     Best    4.151E+04    4.319E+02     6.888E+02     5.004E+02     4.764E+02                     Best        3.452E+09   1.959E+03   2.781E+05   2.072E+03   1.959E+03
      F3             Mean    5.570E+04    5.518E+02     7.457E+02     5.742E+02     5.478E+02        F18          Mean        7.670E+09   2.031E+03   1.758E+06   1.040E+04   2.014E+03
                      Std    3.776E+03    4.499E+01     3.272E+01     3.330E+01     4.058E+01                      Std        1.877E+09   3.598E+01   1.054E+06   8.717E+03   4.176E+01
                     Best    1.316E+03    7.856E+02     8.011E+02     7.367E+02     7.476E+02                     Best        4.041E+03   3.156E+03   3.355E+03   2.874E+03   2.920E+03
      F4             Mean    1.353E+03    8.109E+02     8.497E+02     7.831E+02     7.791E+02        F19          Mean        4.711E+03   3.642E+03   3.681E+03   3.488E+03   3.493E+03
                      Std    2.671E+01    1.295E+01     1.791E+01     1.618E+01     1.467E+01                      Std        3.096E+02   1.690E+02   1.253E+02   2.524E+02   1.750E+02
                     Best    7.080E+02    6.001E+02     6.040E+02     6.004E+02     6.000E+02                     Best        3.140E+03   2.582E+03   2.611E+03   2.542E+03   2.532E+03
      F5             Mean    7.171E+02    6.001E+02     6.054E+02     6.008E+02     6.000E+02        F20          Mean        3.369E+03   2.608E+03   2.644E+03   2.577E+03   2.580E+03
                      Std    9.009E+00    2.446E-02     8.224E-01     3.109E-01     7.718E-03                      Std        8.072E+01   1.476E+01   1.725E+01   1.814E+01   1.517E+01
                     Best    2.199E+03    9.939E+02     1.099E+03     1.011E+03     9.816E+02                     Best        1.484E+04   2.347E+03   2.409E+03   2.323E+03   2.300E+03
      F6             Mean    2.234E+03    1.057E+03     1.145E+03     1.051E+03     1.032E+03        F21          Mean        1.734E+04   1.312E+04   1.128E+04   1.134E+04   1.215E+04
                      Std    4.704E+01    2.125E+01     2.040E+01     1.982E+01     1.580E+01                      Std        9.203E+02   2.928E+03   4.429E+03   3.467E+03   3.232E+03
                     Best    1.592E+03    1.065E+03     1.125E+03     1.019E+03     1.024E+03                     Best        4.223E+03   3.001E+03   3.043E+03   2.811E+03   2.938E+03
      F7             Mean    1.623E+03    1.113E+03     1.155E+03     1.078E+03     1.077E+03        F22          Mean        4.719E+03   3.040E+03   3.084E+03   2.989E+03   3.002E+03
                      Std    3.300E+01    1.720E+01     1.440E+01     2.050E+01     1.857E+01                      Std        2.341E+02   1.833E+01   1.868E+01   4.720E+01   2.159E+01
                     Best    3.676E+04    9.003E+02     1.378E+03     9.314E+02     9.002E+02                     Best        4.523E+03   3.065E+03   3.192E+03   2.974E+03   2.942E+03
      F8             Mean    5.901E+04    9.026E+02     1.857E+03     1.123E+03     9.016E+02        F23          Mean        5.194E+03   3.183E+03   3.248E+03   3.091E+03   3.114E+03
                      Std    6.442E+03    2.056E+00     3.592E+02     2.043E+02     1.426E+00                      Std        2.586E+02   3.290E+01   1.910E+01   6.805E+01   6.448E+01
                     Best    1.277E+04    1.139E+04     1.118E+04     1.037E+04     1.021E+04                     Best        1.944E+04   2.966E+03   3.137E+03   3.004E+03   2.974E+03
      F9             Mean    1.489E+04    1.234E+04     1.197E+04     1.106E+04     1.145E+04        F24          Mean        1.950E+04   3.033E+03   3.188E+03   3.044E+03   3.030E+03
                      Std    9.045E+02    4.225E+02     3.517E+02     2.756E+02     4.800E+02                      Std        9.155E+01   2.468E+01   2.386E+01   2.139E+01   2.165E+01
                     Best    3.620E+04    1.160E+03     2.226E+03     1.187E+03     1.158E+03                     Best        1.885E+04   6.070E+03   6.910E+03   4.770E+03   4.542E+03
      F10            Mean    5.580E+04    1.231E+03     2.888E+03     1.285E+03     1.200E+03        F25          Mean        1.966E+04   6.522E+03   7.244E+03   5.917E+03   6.085E+03
                      Std    6.723E+03    2.826E+01     5.693E+02     6.231E+01     2.490E+01                      Std        2.737E+02   2.185E+02   2.009E+02   5.997E+02   4.009E+02
                     Best    7.626E+10    1.095E+05     5.381E+07     5.385E+05     1.719E+05                     Best        5.741E+03   3.257E+03   3.484E+03   3.254E+03   3.245E+03
      F11            Mean    1.050E+11    8.012E+05     1.260E+08     2.076E+06     5.518E+05        F26          Mean        7.454E+03   3.317E+03   3.575E+03   3.328E+03   3.306E+03
                      Std    1.598E+10    6.737E+05     3.494E+07     1.073E+06     3.401E+05                      Std        5.898E+02   4.513E+01   6.028E+01   4.486E+01   4.209E+01
                     Best    3.184E+10    2.633E+03     1.141E+06     2.423E+03     2.439E+03                     Best        1.673E+04   3.265E+03   3.356E+03   3.264E+03   3.259E+03
      F12            Mean    4.982E+10    3.406E+03     1.555E+07     8.393E+03     3.547E+03        F27          Mean        1.933E+04   3.312E+03   3.452E+03   3.310E+03   3.287E+03
                      Std    1.244E+10    3.761E+02     1.092E+07     4.976E+03     7.059E+02                      Std        1.170E+03   3.636E+01   4.421E+01   2.224E+01   2.390E+01
                     Best    1.749E+07    1.507E+03     1.055E+05     1.668E+03     1.475E+03                     Best        1.833E+04   3.796E+03   4.982E+03   3.536E+03   3.756E+03
      F13            Mean    1.336E+08    1.558E+03     4.806E+05     2.987E+03     1.543E+03        F28          Mean        2.987E+05   4.439E+03   5.501E+03   3.931E+03   4.140E+03
                      Std    7.684E+07    3.471E+01     1.953E+05     5.288E+03     3.608E+01                      Std        2.602E+05   2.629E+02   2.648E+02   2.697E+02   2.266E+02
                     Best    6.771E+09    1.773E+03     1.001E+06     2.235E+03     1.700E+03                     Best        2.875E+09   1.060E+06   2.571E+07   1.187E+06   7.826E+05
      F14            Mean    1.803E+10    1.919E+03     3.428E+06     5.940E+03     1.893E+03        F29          Mean        1.138E+10   1.309E+06   4.482E+07   2.114E+06   9.898E+05
                      Std    5.359E+09    8.884E+01     1.365E+06     3.808E+03     1.197E+02                      Std        3.338E+09   1.607E+05   1.382E+07   5.076E+05   1.325E+05
                     Best    9.193E+03    3.854E+03     3.794E+03     2.307E+03     3.413E+03
      F15            Mean    1.132E+04    4.271E+03     4.607E+03     3.663E+03     4.111E+03
                      Std    1.237E+03    1.898E+02     2.783E+02     6.137E+02     2.339E+02
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                         28 of 41



                               Table A4. The statistical results of MSDCS with different strategies for solving CEC2017 (D = 100).

   Function          Index     DCS        DCS-PES      DCS-LPSR      DCS-CDM         MSDCS        Function        Index         DCS       DCS-PES     DCS-LPSR    DCS-CDM     MSDCS
                     Best    2.968E+11    9.542E+06     3.979E+08     4.840E+05     1.335E+04                     Best        3.008E+06   5.759E+03   6.720E+03   4.274E+03   5.731E+03
      F1             Mean    2.976E+11    1.798E+07     6.953E+08     1.804E+06     2.925E+04        F16          Mean        1.646E+07   6.506E+03   7.237E+03   5.896E+03   6.310E+03
                      Std    1.629E+09    4.566E+06     1.846E+08     8.645E+05     1.153E+04                      Std        1.285E+07   2.665E+02   2.802E+02   6.713E+02   2.801E+02
                     Best    3.666E+05    6.134E+04     3.648E+05     5.341E+04     4.792E+04                     Best        2.436E+08   3.317E+03   1.675E+06   5.722E+04   5.582E+03
      F2             Mean    1.617E+06    8.012E+04     5.342E+05     8.050E+04     6.645E+04        F17          Mean        6.265E+08   7.778E+03   6.339E+06   2.210E+05   1.579E+04
                      Std    3.570E+06    1.422E+04     4.272E+04     1.553E+04     1.140E+04                      Std        2.073E+08   2.958E+03   2.686E+06   1.084E+05   6.740E+03
                     Best    1.291E+05    6.824E+02     9.632E+02     6.468E+02     6.286E+02                     Best        2.198E+10   2.474E+03   1.220E+06   2.148E+03   2.162E+03
      F3             Mean    1.596E+05    7.768E+02     1.112E+03     7.252E+02     7.044E+02        F18          Mean        3.444E+10   3.264E+03   7.509E+06   3.828E+03   2.574E+03
                      Std    5.875E+03    4.167E+01     6.502E+01     3.641E+01     4.391E+01                      Std        5.384E+09   1.399E+03   4.581E+06   2.882E+03   5.819E+02
                     Best    2.308E+03    1.254E+03     1.291E+03     7.973E+02     1.159E+03                     Best        7.480E+03   6.232E+03   6.622E+03   5.851E+03   5.462E+03
      F4             Mean    2.328E+03    1.312E+03     1.353E+03     1.190E+03     1.208E+03        F19          Mean        8.474E+03   6.895E+03   6.998E+03   6.560E+03   6.638E+03
                      Std    1.875E+01    2.442E+01     3.130E+01     8.764E+01     2.901E+01                      Std        4.279E+02   2.568E+02   2.419E+02   3.087E+02   3.319E+02
                     Best    7.201E+02    6.016E+02     6.076E+02     6.018E+02     6.001E+02                     Best        4.686E+03   3.053E+03   3.105E+03   2.908E+03   2.973E+03
      F5             Mean    7.246E+02    6.021E+02     6.094E+02     6.041E+02     6.002E+02        F20          Mean        5.081E+03   3.138E+03   3.186E+03   3.039E+03   3.037E+03
                      Std    3.781E+00    3.045E-01     1.042E+00     1.112E+00     4.938E-02                      Std        1.613E+02   3.050E+01   3.650E+01   6.145E+01   2.720E+01
                     Best    4.234E+03    1.502E+03     1.685E+03     1.542E+03     1.409E+03                     Best        3.118E+04   2.328E+03   2.786E+04   2.492E+04   2.661E+04
      F6             Mean    4.315E+03    1.593E+03     1.742E+03     1.640E+03     1.493E+03        F21          Mean        3.396E+04   2.871E+04   2.902E+04   2.695E+04   2.807E+04
                      Std    4.467E+01    2.853E+01     2.881E+01     5.471E+01     2.649E+01                      Std        1.690E+03   5.012E+03   5.333E+02   6.678E+02   6.535E+02
                     Best    2.736E+03    1.562E+03     1.579E+03     1.416E+03     1.462E+03                     Best        6.374E+03   3.566E+03   3.619E+03   3.080E+03   3.292E+03
      F7             Mean    2.778E+03    1.604E+03     1.643E+03     1.503E+03     1.505E+03        F22          Mean        7.204E+03   3.648E+03   3.674E+03   3.385E+03   3.477E+03
                      Std    4.203E+01    2.193E+01     2.974E+01     5.272E+01     2.349E+01                      Std        3.676E+02   3.876E+01   2.758E+01   1.402E+02   6.365E+01
                     Best    1.040E+05    1.061E+03     3.208E+03     3.277E+03     9.376E+02                     Best        1.026E+04   3.950E+03   4.031E+03   3.526E+03   3.426E+03
      F8             Mean    1.125E+05    1.220E+03     5.809E+03     7.504E+03     9.904E+02        F23          Mean        1.216E+04   4.058E+03   4.132E+03   3.783E+03   3.840E+03
                      Std    6.007E+03    9.719E+01     1.528E+03     3.006E+03     3.938E+01                      Std        7.577E+02   4.434E+01   3.839E+01   1.658E+02   1.794E+02
                     Best    2.928E+04    2.553E+04     2.470E+04     2.310E+04     2.478E+04                     Best        3.507E+04   3.364E+03   3.697E+03   3.292E+03   3.211E+03
      F9             Mean    3.147E+04    2.731E+04     2.663E+04     2.450E+04     2.568E+04        F24          Mean        3.519E+04   3.438E+03   3.815E+03   3.395E+03   3.336E+03
                      Std    1.261E+03    6.364E+02     5.795E+02     6.272E+02     4.586E+02                      Std        2.839E+02   5.333E+01   8.936E+01   5.718E+01   4.470E+01
                     Best    2.401E+05    2.267E+03     7.506E+04     2.223E+03     1.959E+03                     Best        5.893E+04   1.152E+04   1.354E+04   8.153E+03   7.509E+03
      F10            Mean    5.004E+05    2.675E+03     1.291E+05     2.570E+03     2.233E+03        F25          Mean        5.913E+04   1.313E+04   1.434E+04   1.066E+04   1.047E+04
                      Std    1.467E+05    2.351E+02     2.627E+04     1.612E+02     1.883E+02                      Std        2.846E+02   6.244E+02   4.503E+02   1.577E+03   1.593E+03
                     Best    2.078E+11    6.007E+06     2.132E+08     3.330E+06     1.267E+06                     Best        1.104E+04   3.615E+03   3.695E+03   3.384E+03   3.415E+03
      F11            Mean    2.545E+11    1.898E+07     4.277E+08     1.683E+07     4.716E+06        F26          Mean        1.408E+04   3.730E+03   3.923E+03   3.501E+03   3.510E+03
                      Std    1.434E+10    7.757E+06     1.267E+08     8.325E+06     2.522E+06                      Std        1.057E+03   7.567E+01   1.151E+02   6.911E+01   4.556E+01
                     Best    3.576E+10    1.180E+04     7.198E+05     4.303E+03     3.513E+03                     Best        3.356E+04   3.494E+03   3.740E+03   3.435E+03   3.402E+03
      F12            Mean    6.282E+10    1.801E+04     7.267E+06     9.456E+03     7.528E+03        F27          Mean        3.368E+04   3.566E+03   3.967E+03   3.507E+03   3.474E+03
                      Std    5.774E+09    4.541E+03     8.204E+06     2.986E+03     2.996E+03                      Std        1.731E+02   4.227E+01   1.244E+02   3.515E+01   3.775E+01
                     Best    1.677E+08    1.700E+03     1.414E+06     2.356E+04     1.673E+03                     Best        5.127E+05   7.521E+03   8.665E+03   5.003E+03   6.440E+03
      F13            Mean    3.045E+08    1.865E+03     4.117E+06     6.806E+04     1.819E+03        F28          Mean        2.590E+06   8.550E+03   9.721E+03   6.398E+03   7.677E+03
                      Std    3.415E+07    9.469E+01     1.494E+06     3.545E+04     9.232E+01                      Std        1.542E+06   3.465E+02   4.065E+02   7.818E+02   5.654E+02
                     Best    2.349E+10    3.190E+03     5.256E+05     2.142E+03     2.098E+03                     Best        3.111E+10   5.288E+04   3.136E+06   1.522E+04   1.641E+04
      F14            Mean    3.401E+10    4.217E+03     6.952E+06     3.820E+03     2.574E+03        F29          Mean        5.396E+10   1.101E+05   7.832E+06   5.073E+04   2.463E+04
                      Std    4.789E+09    8.085E+02     5.328E+06     2.477E+03     4.791E+02                      Std        7.581E+09   4.233E+04   3.430E+06   3.139E+04   5.749E+03
                     Best    2.123E+04    8.177E+03     8.499E+03     3.794E+03     7.114E+03
      F15            Mean    3.031E+04    9.068E+03     9.399E+03     6.858E+03     8.320E+03
                      Std    3.732E+03    3.464E+02     3.613E+02     1.515E+03     5.072E+02
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                        29 of 41



                               Table A5. The statistical results of MSDCS and competition algorithms for solving CEC2017 (D = 10).

    Function           Index    MSDCS           DCS            AE          LSHADE        APSM-jSO         RIME         RDGMVO          QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    1.0000E+02    5.7493E+09     2.0254E+06     3.7831E+05    1.4755E+04     5.3260E+04     2.5642E+02    3.8778E+04   4.7698E+07   9.5523E+04   6.2711E+05
                       Mean    1.0000E+02    1.4158E+10     5.9158E+06     3.4316E+06    4.1725E+04     5.5621E+05     1.4843E+04    3.1529E+05   1.6500E+08   3.1513E+05   5.0134E+06
       F1               Std    1.7861E-04    4.4550E+09     2.6245E+06     3.5433E+06    2.2437E+04     4.9964E+05     2.7503E+04    2.2557E+05   7.7902E+07   2.2294E+05   3.3463E+06
                       Rank         1            11              9              7             3              6              2             5           10            4            8
                       Best    3.0000E+02    2.1823E+04     2.4369E+03     3.1469E+02    3.0055E+02     3.1591E+02     3.0000E+02    5.7698E+02   2.7174E+03   3.1261E+02   8.2288E+02
                       Mean    3.0000E+02    4.7063E+04     4.9389E+03     7.2511E+02    3.0334E+02     3.7082E+02     3.0012E+02    1.2623E+03   5.1493E+03   4.6712E+02   2.3948E+03
       F2               Std    2.7352E-09    1.7395E+04     1.4506E+03     3.3588E+02    1.9975E+00     5.4313E+01     2.4183E-01    4.6842E+02   1.7953E+03   1.4327E+02   1.3961E+03
                       Rank         1            11              9              6             3              4              2             7           10            5            8
                       Best    4.0007E+02    7.7740E+02     4.0624E+02     4.0446E+02    4.0387E+02     4.0008E+02     4.0037E+02    4.0187E+02   4.1309E+02   4.0200E+02   4.0502E+02
                       Mean    4.0066E+02    1.7742E+03     4.0747E+02     4.0708E+02    4.0488E+02     4.1039E+02     4.0814E+02    4.0840E+02   4.2536E+02   4.0801E+02   4.0732E+02
       F3               Std    4.8019E-01    6.8948E+02     4.0923E-01     9.2466E-01    5.4504E-01     1.6528E+01     1.5208E+01    1.1560E+01   8.0864E+00   8.7552E+00   1.4958E+00
                       Rank         1            11              5              3             2              9              7             8           10            6            4
                       Best    5.1030E+02    5.8986E+02     5.2550E+02     5.1768E+02    5.1731E+02     5.0721E+02     5.0500E+02    5.0950E+02   5.3387E+02   5.0804E+02   5.1252E+02
                       Mean    5.1618E+02    6.3658E+02     5.3732E+02     5.3883E+02    5.3377E+02     5.1900E+02     5.1911E+02    5.2794E+02   5.4482E+02   5.2538E+02   5.2730E+02
       F4               Std    3.8614E+00    2.2926E+01     6.4713E+00     8.3857E+00    5.8940E+00     6.5260E+00     8.6678E+00    9.2346E+00   4.6029E+00   1.0508E+01   5.7513E+00
                       Rank         1            11              8              9             7              2              3             6           10            4            5
                       Best    6.0000E+02    6.4647E+02     6.0093E+02     6.0161E+02    6.0029E+02     6.0032E+02     6.0007E+02    6.0054E+02   6.0959E+02   6.0037E+02   6.0116E+02
                       Mean    6.0000E+02    6.7863E+02     6.0224E+02     6.0380E+02    6.0069E+02     6.0109E+02     6.0025E+02    6.0144E+02   6.1377E+02   6.0158E+02   6.0252E+02
       F5               Std    3.2986E-05    1.3695E+01     6.1605E-01     1.3746E+00    2.2380E-01     6.3389E-01     1.7612E-01    1.0036E+00   2.3962E+00   1.3607E+00   9.9250E-01
                       Rank         1            11              7              9             3              4              2             5           10            6            8
                       Best    7.2033E+02    8.8796E+02     7.3389E+02     7.4647E+02    7.3663E+02     7.1892E+02     7.1378E+02    7.3599E+02   7.4378E+02   7.2989E+02   7.2387E+02
                       Mean    7.2806E+02    9.0928E+02     7.4693E+02     7.6061E+02    7.4891E+02     7.3470E+02     7.2823E+02    7.4763E+02   7.7472E+02   7.4960E+02   7.4026E+02
       F6               Std    4.2884E+00    1.5234E+01     5.6237E+00     8.5151E+00    6.0122E+00     9.2727E+00     1.0144E+01    6.1932E+00   9.0861E+00   9.2899E+00   6.1761E+00
                       Rank         1            11              5              9             7              3              2             6           10            8            4
                       Best    8.0794E+02    8.5697E+02     8.1856E+02     8.2438E+02    8.1873E+02     8.0533E+02     8.0697E+02    8.0680E+02   8.2689E+02   8.0618E+02   8.1396E+02
                       Mean    8.1653E+02    9.0329E+02     8.3373E+02     8.4130E+02    8.3609E+02     8.1770E+02     8.1901E+02    8.2211E+02   8.4754E+02   8.2092E+02   8.2624E+02
       F7               Std    4.0259E+00    1.3581E+01     7.1353E+00     9.6248E+00    7.1735E+00     6.5434E+00     7.4739E+00    1.0125E+01   7.1703E+00   9.3344E+00   6.3941E+00
                       Rank         1            11              7              9             8              2              3             5           10            4            6
                       Best    9.0000E+02    2.5909E+03     9.0119E+02     9.0247E+02    9.0018E+02     9.0020E+02     9.0000E+02    9.0021E+02   9.4019E+02   9.0039E+02   9.0079E+02
                       Mean    9.0000E+02    3.4254E+03     9.0269E+02     9.1259E+02    9.0038E+02     9.0230E+02     9.0515E+02    9.0093E+02   1.0251E+03   9.0545E+02   9.0689E+02
       F8               Std    2.9783E-12    4.5037E+02     1.1132E+00     7.4943E+00    1.3740E-01     3.4621E+00     2.0279E+01    7.3702E-01   5.3334E+01   1.1258E+01   6.6783E+00
                       Rank         1            11              5              9             2              4              6             3           10            7            8
                       Best    1.4374E+03    2.4583E+03     2.1938E+03     2.0536E+03    1.9719E+03     1.0226E+03     1.1260E+03    1.9908E+03   2.1855E+03   1.5052E+03   1.5181E+03
                       Mean    1.8821E+03    3.0583E+03     2.6710E+03     2.5458E+03    2.6108E+03     1.5588E+03     1.7127E+03    2.4507E+03   2.5581E+03   2.0555E+03   2.3069E+03
       F9               Std    1.6429E+02    3.2115E+02     2.2077E+02     2.2489E+02    2.2867E+02     2.6641E+02     3.2696E+02    2.2287E+02   2.0811E+02   3.0414E+02   2.6950E+02
                       Rank         3            11             10              7             9              1              2             6            8            4            5
                       Best    1.1029E+03    1.4647E+03     1.1307E+03     1.1090E+03    1.1067E+03     1.1031E+03     1.1021E+03    1.1070E+03   1.1411E+03   1.1105E+03   1.1127E+03
                       Mean    1.1044E+03    7.8617E+03     1.1461E+03     1.1204E+03    1.1118E+03     1.1347E+03     1.1140E+03    1.1151E+03   1.1756E+03   1.1200E+03   1.1337E+03
       F10              Std    8.0644E-01    5.2704E+03     1.0143E+01     7.7311E+00    2.4660E+00     6.0100E+01     1.7949E+01    6.2181E+00   1.8774E+01   7.8392E+00   1.5966E+01
                       Rank         1            11              9              6             2              8              3             4           10            5            7
                       Best    1.2005E+03    1.4638E+08     2.1922E+05     8.2101E+03    2.8664E+03     1.2048E+04     1.2600E+04    2.5023E+04   8.1639E+05   1.8912E+04   2.9941E+04
                       Mean    1.3946E+03    1.0711E+09     9.8144E+05     1.2265E+05    5.9365E+03     1.2769E+06     6.0515E+05    2.7579E+05   6.7415E+06   1.8522E+05   6.5871E+05
       F11              Std    1.3112E+02    6.3202E+08     5.7889E+05     1.7321E+05    2.7993E+03     1.6782E+06     6.6829E+05    4.7869E+05   4.2237E+06   2.1173E+05   6.0399E+05
                       Rank         1            11              8              3             2              9              6             5           10            4            7
                       Best    1.3008E+03    2.2525E+05     2.9846E+03     1.4033E+03    1.3258E+03     1.8184E+03     1.3242E+03    1.3831E+03   2.9281E+03   1.5709E+03   1.9207E+03
                       Mean    1.3089E+03    8.3893E+07     8.5516E+03     1.6971E+03    1.3524E+03     1.0766E+04     9.4812E+03    1.5773E+03   8.6622E+03   8.3282E+03   6.1903E+03
       F12              Std    4.1569E+00    8.4280E+07     2.6780E+03     1.8807E+02    2.3846E+01     8.1255E+03     8.1323E+03    3.4744E+02   5.7888E+03   6.7004E+03   3.2397E+03
                       Rank         1            11              7              4             2             10              9             3            8            6            5
                       Best    1.4010E+03    1.6535E+03     1.4993E+03     1.4220E+03    1.4235E+03     1.4349E+03     1.4091E+03    1.4182E+03   1.4608E+03   1.4530E+03   1.4728E+03
                       Mean    1.4095E+03    2.8400E+05     1.6264E+03     1.4410E+03    1.4308E+03     4.3511E+03     6.3744E+03    1.4298E+03   1.5042E+03   1.6244E+03   1.5355E+03
       F13              Std    6.4567E+00    6.0296E+05     1.3233E+02     7.6765E+00    3.1971E+00     3.9295E+03     5.9838E+03    3.5210E+00   3.0758E+01   1.5524E+02   3.4230E+01
                       Rank         1            11              8              4             3              9             10             2            5            7            6
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                              30 of 41



                               Table A5. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS         AE        LSHADE       APSM-jSO       RIME       RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    1.5005E+03    1.5311E+04   1.7312E+03   1.5124E+03   1.5049E+03   1.5683E+03   1.5030E+03   1.5052E+03   1.6319E+03   1.6031E+03   1.6936E+03
                       Mean    1.5016E+03    2.0001E+06   3.2182E+03   1.5439E+03   1.5113E+03   4.2349E+03   6.5258E+03   1.5161E+03   1.9293E+03   2.5458E+03   2.2961E+03
       F14              Std    7.0929E-01    4.1953E+06   1.0759E+03   2.5733E+01   3.4618E+00   4.4649E+03   6.4658E+03   6.1365E+00   2.3096E+02   1.2108E+03   4.4323E+02
                       Rank         1            11            8            4            2            9           10            3            5            7            6
                       Best    1.6020E+03    1.9256E+03   1.6849E+03   1.6245E+03   1.6309E+03   1.6034E+03   1.6007E+03   1.6135E+03   1.6472E+03   1.6027E+03   1.6182E+03
                       Mean    1.6089E+03    2.4853E+03   1.7909E+03   1.7087E+03   1.6767E+03   1.7111E+03   1.7449E+03   1.6813E+03   1.8157E+03   1.7629E+03   1.6698E+03
       F15              Std    1.1199E+01    2.0842E+02   7.2196E+01   8.3029E+01   3.9587E+01   1.0266E+02   1.2965E+02   6.2715E+01   7.3752E+01   1.2025E+02   5.9635E+01
                       Rank         1            11            9            5            3            6            7            4           10            8            2
                       Best    1.7079E+03    1.8120E+03   1.7697E+03   1.7433E+03   1.7474E+03   1.7120E+03   1.7009E+03   1.7288E+03   1.7649E+03   1.7301E+03   1.7438E+03
                       Mean    1.7274E+03    2.1391E+03   1.8066E+03   1.7763E+03   1.7771E+03   1.7497E+03   1.7353E+03   1.7574E+03   1.8041E+03   1.7539E+03   1.7667E+03
       F16              Std    8.1552E+00    1.5983E+02   2.0363E+01   2.4908E+01   1.3420E+01   3.1434E+01   3.3402E+01   1.8249E+01   2.1915E+01   1.7887E+01   1.2338E+01
                       Rank         1            11           10            7            8            3            2            5            9            4            6
                       Best    1.8005E+03    2.4488E+06   4.6853E+03   1.8901E+03   1.8355E+03   3.0733E+03   6.0183E+03   1.8557E+03   5.0878E+03   3.2995E+03   5.5077E+03
                       Mean    1.8051E+03    2.5489E+08   1.4566E+04   2.3704E+03   1.8504E+03   1.9717E+04   2.1238E+04   2.0548E+03   1.8979E+04   1.0591E+04   2.1178E+04
       F17              Std    7.1105E+00    2.2608E+08   7.8372E+03   8.8279E+02   1.1899E+01   1.1309E+04   1.1936E+04   2.4754E+02   1.2195E+04   7.3165E+03   1.6613E+04
                       Rank         1            11            6            4            2            8           10            3            7            5            9
                       Best    1.9004E+03    2.7827E+03   2.0219E+03   1.9071E+03   1.9049E+03   1.9206E+03   1.9066E+03   1.9050E+03   1.9353E+03   1.9761E+03   1.9493E+03
                       Mean    1.9013E+03    8.3093E+06   3.5861E+03   1.9167E+03   1.9078E+03   5.9047E+03   6.5940E+03   1.9084E+03   2.2900E+03   3.2191E+03   2.5978E+03
       F18              Std    5.8166E-01    8.1776E+06   1.3430E+03   6.7484E+00   1.4101E+00   4.6855E+03   5.6768E+03   1.7432E+00   4.6198E+02   1.3231E+03   7.1579E+02
                       Rank         1            11            8            4            2            9           10            3            5            7            6
                       Best    2.0075E+03    2.2627E+03   2.0627E+03   2.0329E+03   2.0491E+03   2.0065E+03   2.0005E+03   2.0248E+03   2.0498E+03   2.0131E+03   2.0350E+03
                       Mean    2.0205E+03    2.3748E+03   2.1120E+03   2.0604E+03   2.0792E+03   2.0299E+03   2.0215E+03   2.0565E+03   2.1006E+03   2.0597E+03   2.0614E+03
       F19              Std    6.7204E+00    5.9615E+01   2.5586E+01   1.8227E+01   1.3504E+01   1.2538E+01   2.3301E+01   1.6347E+01   2.4887E+01   2.8835E+01   1.4982E+01
                       Rank         1            11           10            6            8            3            2            4            9            5            7
                       Best    2.2000E+03    2.2778E+03   2.2181E+03   2.2048E+03   2.2018E+03   2.2016E+03   2.2000E+03   2.1934E+03   2.2100E+03   2.2006E+03   2.2035E+03
                       Mean    2.2637E+03    2.4061E+03   2.3097E+03   2.2778E+03   2.3010E+03   2.2667E+03   2.2822E+03   2.2124E+03   2.2988E+03   2.2480E+03   2.2402E+03
       F20              Std    6.0644E+01    4.7107E+01   4.0100E+01   6.4494E+01   5.8076E+01   6.0394E+01   6.2719E+01   3.2171E+01   5.4048E+01   5.5353E+01   5.1257E+01
                       Rank         4            11           10            6            9            5            7            1            8            3            2
                       Best    2.3000E+03    2.5573E+03   2.3077E+03   2.2605E+03   2.3038E+03   2.2018E+03   2.2226E+03   2.2125E+03   2.2783E+03   2.2232E+03   2.2167E+03
                       Mean    2.3004E+03    3.5541E+03   2.3104E+03   2.3090E+03   2.3068E+03   2.2942E+03   2.2988E+03   2.3020E+03   2.3290E+03   2.3027E+03   2.3048E+03
       F21              Std    5.3239E-01    3.9223E+02   1.1781E+00   9.2783E+00   1.3535E+00   3.1612E+01   1.8224E+01   2.2208E+01   1.5785E+01   2.0421E+01   2.1761E+01
                       Rank         3            11            9            8            7            1            2            4           10            5            6
                       Best    2.6044E+03    2.7360E+03   2.6270E+03   2.6147E+03   2.6268E+03   2.6081E+03   2.6090E+03   2.6100E+03   2.6289E+03   2.6136E+03   2.6129E+03
                       Mean    2.6135E+03    2.7955E+03   2.6380E+03   2.6317E+03   2.6347E+03   2.6215E+03   2.6235E+03   2.6205E+03   2.6446E+03   2.6288E+03   2.6260E+03
       F22              Std    4.4362E+00    2.4902E+01   5.7527E+00   8.5999E+00   4.6485E+00   6.8253E+00   9.1208E+00   6.1075E+00   7.6926E+00   8.5818E+00   6.7002E+00
                       Rank         1            11            9            7            8            3            4            2           10            6            5
                       Best    2.5000E+03    2.8460E+03   2.7351E+03   2.5157E+03   2.6295E+03   2.5019E+03   2.5001E+03   2.5015E+03   2.5824E+03   2.5015E+03   2.5299E+03
                       Mean    2.7215E+03    2.9318E+03   2.7622E+03   2.7487E+03   2.7579E+03   2.6863E+03   2.7069E+03   2.6696E+03   2.7414E+03   2.7379E+03   2.6937E+03
       F23              Std    6.0473E+01    4.9897E+01   7.6980E+00   6.2816E+01   2.8267E+01   1.0637E+02   9.8395E+01   1.1556E+02   6.2861E+01   6.4861E+01   8.7729E+01
                       Rank         5            11           10            8            9            2            4            1            7            6            3
                       Best    2.8977E+03    2.9859E+03   2.9187E+03   2.9011E+03   2.8979E+03   2.8982E+03   2.8978E+03   2.8987E+03   2.9394E+03   2.8980E+03   2.9064E+03
                       Mean    2.9270E+03    3.8100E+03   2.9447E+03   2.9345E+03   2.9202E+03   2.9292E+03   2.9307E+03   2.9300E+03   2.9593E+03   2.9216E+03   2.9386E+03
       F24              Std    2.2318E+01    4.0162E+02   9.4120E+00   2.0131E+01   2.3150E+01   2.4955E+01   2.3248E+01   2.1948E+01   6.7199E+00   2.3375E+01   1.6443E+01
                       Rank         3            11            9            7            1            4            6            5           10            2            8
                       Best    2.9000E+03    3.8446E+03   2.9162E+03   2.9035E+03   2.9004E+03   2.6150E+03   2.8006E+03   2.9017E+03   2.9509E+03   2.8182E+03   2.7594E+03
                       Mean    2.9000E+03    4.6015E+03   2.9356E+03   2.9222E+03   2.9009E+03   2.9151E+03   2.9616E+03   2.9163E+03   3.0281E+03   2.9189E+03   2.9265E+03
       F25              Std    2.9802E-07    3.3601E+02   1.1421E+01   1.7723E+01   3.3107E-01   7.4756E+01   1.5665E+02   1.6192E+01   4.0095E+01   5.5160E+01   3.7675E+01
                       Rank         1            11            8            6            2            3            9            4           10            5            7
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                        31 of 41



                               Table A5. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS           AE          LSHADE        APSM-jSO         RIME         RDGMVO          QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    3.0900E+03    3.1681E+03     3.0934E+03     3.0900E+03    3.0891E+03     3.0897E+03     3.0737E+03    3.0934E+03   3.1041E+03   3.0935E+03   3.0930E+03
                       Mean    3.0941E+03    3.3186E+03     3.0983E+03     3.0934E+03    3.0910E+03     3.0958E+03     3.0924E+03    3.0999E+03   3.1093E+03   3.1041E+03   3.0971E+03
       F26              Std    1.5433E+00    7.9957E+01     1.5598E+00     2.1453E+00    1.5088E+00     3.5479E+00     2.8838E+01    3.3901E+00   2.9186E+00   1.1693E+01   1.6954E+00
                       Rank         4            11              7              3             1              5              2             8           10            9            6
                       Best    3.1000E+03    3.4636E+03     3.1689E+03     3.1197E+03    3.1019E+03     3.1037E+03     3.1001E+03    3.1027E+03   3.2034E+03   3.1043E+03   3.1352E+03
                       Mean    3.1681E+03    3.8514E+03     3.2676E+03     3.2111E+03    3.2324E+03     3.2773E+03     3.2312E+03    3.2159E+03   3.2533E+03   3.2690E+03   3.1973E+03
       F27              Std    1.2567E+02    1.3415E+02     7.7804E+01     9.0134E+01    1.3345E+02     1.1233E+02     6.1484E+01    1.0604E+02   3.2703E+01   1.3869E+02   5.8523E+01
                       Rank         1            11              8              3             6             10              5             4            7            9            2
                       Best    3.1525E+03    3.4186E+03     3.2074E+03     3.1814E+03    3.1815E+03     3.1505E+03     3.1366E+03    3.1721E+03   3.1872E+03   3.1644E+03   3.1693E+03
                       Mean    3.1802E+03    3.7442E+03     3.2549E+03     3.2263E+03    3.2126E+03     3.1984E+03     3.2084E+03    3.2209E+03   3.2644E+03   3.2193E+03   3.2161E+03
       F28              Std    1.4881E+01    1.4833E+02     2.7033E+01     3.1315E+01    1.9708E+01     4.4018E+01     4.9649E+01    3.0714E+01   3.6303E+01   3.8406E+01   2.6174E+01
                       Rank         1            11              9              8             4              2              3             7           10            6            5
                       Best    3.4150E+03    3.1248E+06     4.0335E+05     5.3272E+03    3.6342E+03     4.4292E+03     3.8858E+03    2.2907E+04   3.9652E+04   7.2975E+03   6.1996E+03
                       Mean    1.1400E+05    7.1092E+07     1.3283E+06     2.3745E+05    1.0364E+05     3.9717E+05     2.5083E+04    4.9143E+05   1.2247E+06   7.1444E+05   2.8318E+05
       F29              Std    3.4330E+05    4.3848E+07     8.4507E+05     4.8294E+05    3.0635E+05     5.7051E+05     3.1032E+04    8.8873E+05   1.1072E+06   9.9113E+05   5.7114E+05
                       Rank         3            11             10              4             2              6              1             7            9            8            5



                               Table A6. The statistical results of MSDCS and competition algorithms for solving CEC2017 (D = 30).

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS           AE          LSHADE        APSM-jSO         RIME         RDGMVO          QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    1.2789E+02    6.9678E+10     6.4842E+07     9.6229E+06    7.0730E+04     1.0115E+07     2.2982E+03    2.5572E+07   1.7446E+09   2.7199E+07   9.1788E+07
                       Mean    2.4428E+03    8.0101E+10     1.2490E+08     2.9292E+07    1.2570E+05     2.5748E+07     1.0190E+05    5.6322E+07   3.4245E+09   5.6907E+07   4.0150E+08
       F1               Std    2.8072E+03    2.6339E+09     3.9593E+07     1.3945E+07    4.6680E+04     1.1722E+07     1.5103E+05    1.7546E+07   9.0780E+08   1.9774E+07   1.2956E+08
                       Rank         1            11              8              5             3              4              2             6           10            7            9
                       Best    3.0078E+02    9.4664E+04     5.2191E+04     8.0755E+03    6.3748E+02     1.4127E+04     3.2131E+03    4.5889E+04   4.7636E+04   2.0795E+04   3.6754E+04
                       Mean    3.4215E+02    3.7681E+05     7.2093E+04     1.7769E+04    1.6346E+03     2.9966E+04     7.9464E+03    6.0370E+04   6.5992E+04   3.1407E+04   5.7956E+04
       F2               Std    6.6465E+01    5.6101E+05     8.9338E+03     5.1024E+03    8.4654E+02     1.0495E+04     2.6125E+03    1.1281E+04   9.5735E+03   5.2953E+03   1.3805E+04
                       Rank         1            11             10              4             2              5              3             8            9            6            7
                       Best    4.0645E+02    9.9125E+03     5.4047E+02     4.9758E+02    4.8674E+02     4.9797E+02     4.1996E+02    4.9081E+02   7.9115E+02   4.8470E+02   5.4189E+02
                       Mean    4.8789E+02    2.2956E+04     5.6575E+02     5.2247E+02    4.9631E+02     5.3192E+02     4.6135E+02    5.5831E+02   9.9079E+02   5.5406E+02   5.8642E+02
       F3               Std    2.1736E+01    2.7394E+03     1.8881E+01     1.2807E+01    1.1765E+01     2.7109E+01     3.3667E+01    3.5079E+01   1.4430E+02   3.4094E+01   2.8049E+01
                       Rank         2            11              8              4             3              5              1             7           10            6            9
                       Best    6.0835E+02    1.0066E+03     6.5531E+02     6.4337E+02    6.6181E+02     5.5826E+02     5.6377E+02    6.1066E+02   7.0609E+02   5.8767E+02   6.2099E+02
                       Mean    6.2659E+02    1.0167E+03     7.0006E+02     6.7944E+02    6.9274E+02     5.8825E+02     6.1293E+02    6.6718E+02   7.4485E+02   6.5762E+02   6.5512E+02
       F4               Std    1.0369E+01    1.4189E+01     1.5449E+01     1.6828E+01    1.2268E+01     1.5402E+01     2.7901E+01    3.2730E+01   1.5249E+01   3.8743E+01   1.7986E+01
                       Rank         3            11              9              7             8              1              2             6           10            5            4
                       Best    6.0000E+02    6.8815E+02     6.0517E+02     6.0371E+02    6.0054E+02     6.0299E+02     6.0058E+02    6.0529E+02   6.2645E+02   6.0634E+02   6.0579E+02
                       Mean    6.0000E+02    7.1028E+02     6.0717E+02     6.0736E+02    6.0084E+02     6.0855E+02     6.0351E+02    6.1190E+02   6.3074E+02   6.2410E+02   6.1024E+02
       F5               Std    2.2047E-03    1.0282E+01     1.3808E+00     2.3914E+00    1.8008E-01     3.1862E+00     2.6960E+00    3.2483E+00   3.2977E+00   1.4465E+01   2.6056E+00
                       Rank         1            11              4              5             2              6              3             8           10            9            7
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                              32 of 41



                               Table A6. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS         AE        LSHADE       APSM-jSO       RIME       RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    8.4684E+02    1.5872E+03   8.9452E+02   8.8854E+02   8.9741E+02   8.0976E+02   7.8756E+02   8.9706E+02   1.0035E+03   8.6640E+02   8.7118E+02
                       Mean    8.6226E+02    1.6200E+03   9.4096E+02   9.2144E+02   9.2160E+02   8.7769E+02   8.5849E+02   9.4967E+02   1.0557E+03   9.9026E+02   9.1035E+02
       F6               Std    9.6278E+00    3.3744E+01   1.7434E+01   1.7586E+01   8.6095E+00   2.9992E+01   3.8109E+01   2.0903E+01   2.9602E+01   5.5529E+01   2.1628E+01
                       Rank         2            11            7            5            6            3            1            8           10            9            4
                       Best    9.0802E+02    1.2371E+03   9.5693E+02   9.2519E+02   9.5760E+02   8.5711E+02   8.6071E+02   8.7822E+02   9.9985E+02   8.8133E+02   9.0705E+02
                       Mean    9.2857E+02    1.2602E+03   9.9478E+02   9.7446E+02   9.8561E+02   8.8969E+02   8.9980E+02   9.3115E+02   1.0358E+03   9.3048E+02   9.4591E+02
       F7               Std    1.0187E+01    1.9590E+01   1.5720E+01   2.2990E+01   1.1417E+01   2.3824E+01   2.8064E+01   3.2196E+01   1.6353E+01   2.5559E+01   1.8321E+01
                       Rank         3            11            9            7            8            1            2            5           10            4            6
                       Best    9.0000E+02    1.5743E+04   9.5161E+02   9.5029E+02   9.0077E+02   1.0303E+03   1.3332E+03   1.0111E+03   2.0751E+03   1.7020E+03   1.0216E+03
                       Mean    9.0006E+02    2.0803E+04   1.0526E+03   1.0566E+03   9.0186E+02   1.7186E+03   3.3263E+03   1.2360E+03   3.1588E+03   3.8599E+03   1.3133E+03
       F8               Std    1.9701E-01    1.9327E+03   6.2455E+01   7.2868E+01   1.3727E+00   5.2236E+02   1.3637E+03   2.1169E+02   5.9128E+02   1.3182E+03   2.1910E+02
                       Rank         1            11            3            4            2            7            9            5            8           10            6
                       Best    5.6989E+03    7.8165E+03   8.0205E+03   5.9157E+03   7.9234E+03   3.1085E+03   3.1814E+03   7.5132E+03   7.8360E+03   4.2946E+03   7.0040E+03
                       Mean    6.6065E+03    9.1763E+03   8.7444E+03   8.0210E+03   8.6795E+03   4.5889E+03   4.0954E+03   8.5351E+03   8.6381E+03   6.3286E+03   7.8182E+03
       F9               Std    2.8013E+02    7.0332E+02   3.1874E+02   6.6958E+02   2.7523E+02   7.0624E+02   6.3033E+02   3.3318E+02   2.7112E+02   9.6997E+02   3.8077E+02
                       Rank         4            11           10            6            9            2            1            7            8            3            5
                       Best    1.1094E+03    8.7639E+03   1.6348E+03   1.2109E+03   1.1784E+03   1.2140E+03   1.1416E+03   1.2816E+03   1.6305E+03   1.3427E+03   1.4262E+03
                       Mean    1.1424E+03    2.0738E+04   1.8026E+03   1.3096E+03   1.2175E+03   1.3523E+03   1.1845E+03   1.3396E+03   1.9944E+03   1.4310E+03   1.6081E+03
       F10              Std    2.6436E+01    6.4274E+03   1.1884E+02   4.6648E+01   3.0352E+01   9.1755E+01   3.2090E+01   3.2309E+01   2.3648E+02   6.7219E+01   1.0736E+02
                       Rank         1            11            9            4            3            6            2            5           10            7            8
                       Best    4.8283E+03    1.1012E+10   4.7083E+06   3.6529E+05   3.2532E+04   2.6023E+06   5.3799E+05   1.1219E+06   1.0275E+08   3.3893E+05   3.1825E+06
                       Mean    1.5346E+04    1.7992E+10   8.6813E+06   2.9070E+06   1.8758E+05   1.9415E+07   4.5416E+06   5.1306E+06   2.2206E+08   4.9188E+06   1.4806E+07
       F11              Std    7.8276E+03    3.5436E+09   2.6514E+06   3.6250E+06   1.5335E+05   1.5158E+07   3.9333E+06   3.0300E+06   7.5342E+07   4.1107E+06   1.1167E+07
                       Rank         1            11            7            3            2            9            4            6           10            5            8
                       Best    1.3874E+03    6.0015E+09   1.1837E+05   3.4413E+04   7.8270E+03   7.3724E+04   2.6081E+03   1.4751E+04   1.2668E+07   1.1394E+04   6.6095E+04
                       Mean    1.6245E+03    1.4654E+10   2.9136E+05   9.5555E+04   1.5153E+04   2.4881E+05   2.1622E+04   3.3656E+04   3.2745E+07   3.6475E+04   2.6494E+05
       F12              Std    1.6281E+02    4.7599E+09   9.7410E+04   5.1504E+04   6.9316E+03   2.4078E+05   2.5195E+04   1.8523E+04   1.2221E+07   4.3226E+04   2.0220E+05
                       Rank         1            11            9            6            2            7            3            4           10            5            8
                       Best    1.4389E+03    3.3165E+06   1.3025E+04   1.5570E+03   1.4851E+03   5.5984E+03   2.5114E+03   5.3237E+03   1.9818E+04   3.3197E+03   4.7445E+03
                       Mean    1.4605E+03    1.7072E+07   4.6612E+04   1.6790E+03   1.5228E+03   5.9309E+04   4.4655E+04   2.3843E+04   4.8016E+04   3.8729E+04   2.4547E+04
       F13              Std    1.2228E+01    1.3086E+07   2.1699E+04   9.5858E+01   1.3373E+01   4.8589E+04   3.4230E+04   1.9080E+04   2.3984E+04   3.2537E+04   1.8724E+04
                       Rank         1            11            8            3            2           10            7            4            9            6            5
                       Best    1.5245E+03    5.7946E+08   2.4078E+04   6.5196E+03   1.9318E+03   1.6141E+04   1.6334E+03   4.2687E+03   4.9801E+05   2.2119E+03   1.3672E+04
                       Mean    1.5660E+03    3.1947E+09   4.3102E+04   2.0277E+04   2.2963E+03   6.9537E+04   8.6588E+03   9.7852E+03   2.5862E+06   1.0344E+04   5.2308E+04
       F14              Std    3.2864E+01    1.3721E+09   1.1856E+04   1.3156E+04   2.1917E+02   4.1652E+04   8.9135E+03   4.9710E+03   1.5826E+06   1.1114E+04   3.0419E+04
                       Rank         1            11            7            6            2            9            3            4           10            5            8
                       Best    2.2858E+03    4.7477E+03   2.7115E+03   2.6878E+03   2.8858E+03   1.8709E+03   2.1759E+03   2.1550E+03   3.3343E+03   2.4338E+03   2.2428E+03
                       Mean    2.8099E+03    7.2309E+03   3.4056E+03   3.2775E+03   3.2492E+03   2.5671E+03   2.5603E+03   2.9042E+03   3.6385E+03   2.8167E+03   2.7722E+03
       F15              Std    1.8253E+02    1.0356E+03   1.9267E+02   2.3919E+02   1.7570E+02   2.8530E+02   2.3818E+02   4.2004E+02   1.6902E+02   2.8056E+02   3.1813E+02
                       Rank         4            11            9            8            7            2            1            6           10            5            3
                       Best    1.8474E+03    3.7393E+03   2.1346E+03   1.9849E+03   1.9885E+03   1.7723E+03   1.7682E+03   1.8012E+03   2.0818E+03   1.8130E+03   1.8357E+03
                       Mean    2.0549E+03    5.8444E+03   2.4139E+03   2.2427E+03   2.2746E+03   2.1119E+03   2.0794E+03   1.9991E+03   2.4667E+03   2.0926E+03   2.0163E+03
       F16              Std    1.2127E+02    2.6407E+03   1.1498E+02   1.3594E+02   1.1767E+02   1.7694E+02   1.7424E+02   1.7936E+02   1.5564E+02   1.7923E+02   1.4197E+02
                       Rank         3            11            9            7            8            6            4            1           10            5            2
                       Best    1.8427E+03    9.4938E+06   1.6473E+05   5.9353E+03   2.1495E+03   1.5659E+05   8.7134E+04   1.1633E+05   3.6184E+05   6.6498E+04   1.4903E+05
                       Mean    1.8879E+03    1.9552E+08   6.9501E+05   3.6252E+04   2.7279E+03   1.5461E+06   1.0152E+06   5.6277E+05   1.2128E+06   5.9050E+05   6.8045E+05
       F17              Std    3.0259E+01    1.5622E+08   3.5416E+05   1.7018E+04   6.4050E+02   1.4528E+06   1.0071E+06   3.8426E+05   6.9813E+05   7.6539E+05   5.3510E+05
                       Rank         1            11            7            3            2           10            8            4            9            5            6
                       Best    1.9129E+03    9.2534E+08   5.0720E+04   2.7846E+03   2.0634E+03   2.6605E+04   1.9848E+03   2.7186E+03   5.9694E+05   2.1459E+03   9.8101E+03
                       Mean    1.9319E+03    3.3185E+09   1.3818E+05   1.1072E+04   2.1566E+03   2.5734E+05   1.2363E+04   9.9789E+03   3.6871E+06   1.1886E+04   1.3711E+05
       F18              Std    9.2647E+00    6.7163E+08   6.0497E+04   6.5001E+03   6.1788E+01   2.3388E+05   1.6566E+04   7.2472E+03   2.3170E+06   1.3210E+04   1.4307E+05
                       Rank         1            11            8            4            2            9            6            3           10            5            7
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                              33 of 41



                               Table A6. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS         AE        LSHADE       APSM-jSO       RIME       RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    2.1320E+03    3.0274E+03   2.6063E+03   2.3259E+03   2.5950E+03   2.0985E+03   2.0560E+03   2.1806E+03   2.6763E+03   2.2454E+03   2.1971E+03
                       Mean    2.3746E+03    3.4508E+03   2.7865E+03   2.6830E+03   2.7747E+03   2.4425E+03   2.4687E+03   2.4758E+03   2.8590E+03   2.4728E+03   2.4505E+03
       F19              Std    1.0893E+02    1.6038E+02   1.0155E+02   2.0074E+02   9.9529E+01   1.6048E+02   1.7922E+02   1.5605E+02   1.1333E+02   1.6826E+02   1.1333E+02
                       Rank         1            11            9            7            8            2            4            6           10            5            3
                       Best    2.4020E+03    2.7045E+03   2.4590E+03   2.4144E+03   2.4569E+03   2.3642E+03   2.3531E+03   2.3782E+03   2.4897E+03   2.2241E+03   2.4093E+03
                       Mean    2.4256E+03    2.8492E+03   2.4924E+03   2.4719E+03   2.4818E+03   2.4016E+03   2.4075E+03   2.4333E+03   2.5342E+03   2.4277E+03   2.4434E+03
       F20              Std    1.1193E+01    5.2695E+01   1.1772E+01   2.2443E+01   1.2215E+01   2.6143E+01   3.2462E+01   3.4799E+01   1.4527E+01   4.2532E+01   1.8105E+01
                       Rank         3            11            9            7            8            1            2            5           10            4            6
                       Best    2.3000E+03    9.0188E+03   2.3432E+03   2.3302E+03   2.3042E+03   2.3219E+03   2.3006E+03   2.3318E+03   2.6608E+03   2.3345E+03   2.3801E+03
                       Mean    2.3000E+03    1.0720E+04   2.3679E+03   2.3549E+03   2.3095E+03   3.7835E+03   3.0755E+03   2.3452E+03   3.6784E+03   2.3792E+03   2.4453E+03
       F21              Std    4.1125E-04    7.9063E+02   1.5171E+01   1.7305E+01   2.2206E+00   1.9636E+03   1.3395E+03   6.6221E+00   1.4148E+03   1.8731E+02   9.0232E+01
                       Rank         1            11            5            4            2           10            8            3            9            6            7
                       Best    2.7417E+03    3.4926E+03   2.8187E+03   2.8029E+03   2.8119E+03   2.7142E+03   2.7118E+03   2.7653E+03   2.8498E+03   2.7530E+03   2.7389E+03
                       Mean    2.7700E+03    3.6640E+03   2.8438E+03   2.8318E+03   2.8399E+03   2.7485E+03   2.7688E+03   2.8409E+03   2.9068E+03   2.8231E+03   2.7939E+03
       F22              Std    1.2097E+01    1.1501E+02   1.5672E+01   1.4353E+01   1.1327E+01   2.6539E+01   3.0882E+01   3.3583E+01   2.0937E+01   3.6225E+01   2.2704E+01
                       Rank         3            11            9            6            7            1            2            8           10            5            4
                       Best    2.8517E+03    3.6088E+03   2.9730E+03   2.9124E+03   2.9774E+03   2.8758E+03   2.8870E+03   2.9166E+03   3.0240E+03   2.9340E+03   2.9259E+03
                       Mean    2.9201E+03    3.9615E+03   3.0106E+03   2.9942E+03   3.0040E+03   2.9097E+03   2.9446E+03   2.9854E+03   3.0689E+03   3.0063E+03   2.9601E+03
       F23              Std    2.9263E+01    1.9954E+02   1.9380E+01   2.4202E+01   1.1858E+01   2.1289E+01   3.2188E+01   3.5366E+01   1.7459E+01   5.3729E+01   1.8173E+01
                       Rank         2            11            9            6            7            1            3            5           10            8            4
                       Best    2.8868E+03    7.2135E+03   2.9294E+03   2.8927E+03   2.8872E+03   2.8973E+03   2.8775E+03   2.9045E+03   3.0675E+03   2.9079E+03   2.9302E+03
                       Mean    2.8871E+03    7.2849E+03   2.9639E+03   2.9089E+03   2.8878E+03   2.9313E+03   2.8907E+03   2.9475E+03   3.1837E+03   2.9483E+03   2.9806E+03
       F24              Std    2.9114E-01    1.3651E+02   1.5995E+01   1.1790E+01   7.4233E-01   2.5773E+01   1.4471E+01   2.8692E+01   6.2297E+01   1.9487E+01   2.1447E+01
                       Rank         1            11            8            4            2            5            3            6           10            7            9
                       Best    2.9000E+03    1.0578E+04   5.3542E+03   4.9122E+03   5.0895E+03   4.1261E+03   2.8030E+03   2.9820E+03   4.5671E+03   3.0838E+03   3.5112E+03
                       Mean    4.4405E+03    1.3379E+04   5.6667E+03   5.3164E+03   5.3737E+03   4.7998E+03   4.5571E+03   4.8837E+03   6.2411E+03   5.0061E+03   4.9088E+03
       F25              Std    4.8095E+02    1.3730E+03   1.3579E+02   1.9655E+02   1.1541E+02   3.0929E+02   9.4378E+02   9.2771E+02   4.4505E+02   1.0979E+03   4.9019E+02
                       Rank         1            11            9            7            8            3            2            4           10            6            5
                       Best    3.1752E+03    3.8929E+03   3.2496E+03   3.2142E+03   3.2043E+03   3.2099E+03   3.1655E+03   3.2622E+03   3.3259E+03   3.2599E+03   3.2441E+03
                       Mean    3.2030E+03    4.8110E+03   3.2713E+03   3.2376E+03   3.2220E+03   3.2314E+03   3.1877E+03   3.3004E+03   3.3761E+03   3.3063E+03   3.2659E+03
       F26              Std    9.1451E+00    3.5498E+02   1.2823E+01   1.2713E+01   7.8312E+00   1.2674E+01   1.1917E+01   2.4611E+01   2.4826E+01   2.7096E+01   1.3713E+01
                       Rank         2            11            7            5            3            4            1            8           10            9            6
                       Best    3.1082E+03    8.0469E+03   3.3076E+03   3.2420E+03   3.2099E+03   3.2431E+03   3.2010E+03   3.2654E+03   3.4919E+03   3.2393E+03   3.2801E+03
                       Mean    3.1997E+03    9.4157E+03   3.3401E+03   3.2702E+03   3.2339E+03   3.3164E+03   3.2433E+03   3.3171E+03   3.6307E+03   3.3236E+03   3.3585E+03
       F27              Std    2.5184E+01    4.5578E+02   1.5935E+01   1.7252E+01   1.4000E+01   4.6283E+01   3.1649E+01   2.2777E+01   8.2890E+01   2.9490E+01   3.0828E+01
                       Rank         1            11            8            4            2            5            3            6           10            7            9
                       Best    3.4879E+03    6.1648E+03   3.9332E+03   3.7051E+03   3.8226E+03   3.5757E+03   3.5029E+03   3.6068E+03   4.1640E+03   3.5471E+03   3.6585E+03
                       Mean    3.6567E+03    1.0257E+04   4.2599E+03   4.0688E+03   4.0290E+03   3.8564E+03   3.7994E+03   3.8383E+03   4.5583E+03   3.9188E+03   3.8653E+03
       F28              Std    9.8493E+01    3.5170E+03   1.3816E+02   1.9884E+02   1.2625E+02   2.2218E+02   1.3203E+02   1.6027E+02   1.7583E+02   2.0898E+02   1.3594E+02
                       Rank         1            11            9            8            7            4            2            3           10            6            5
                       Best    5.3796E+03    3.4033E+08   3.6473E+05   3.7088E+04   8.7309E+03   2.2549E+05   9.3382E+03   5.5908E+04   2.2886E+06   2.9447E+04   2.5746E+05
                       Mean    5.9567E+03    2.3402E+09   1.0855E+06   1.7177E+05   1.5522E+04   1.9855E+06   9.5918E+04   2.5124E+05   9.6583E+06   1.6342E+05   1.4191E+06
       F29              Std    4.1611E+02    9.4098E+08   4.6725E+05   1.2804E+05   5.6107E+03   1.6168E+06   1.4589E+05   1.4015E+05   3.7327E+06   1.1588E+05   9.9749E+05
                       Rank         1            11            7            5            2            9            3            6           10            4            8
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                        34 of 41



                               Table A7. The statistical results of MSDCS and competition algorithms for solving CEC2017 (D = 50).

    Function           Index    MSDCS           DCS            AE          LSHADE        APSM-jSO         RIME         RDGMVO          QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    1.3060E+02    1.3487E+11     4.2215E+08     2.8919E+07    3.7483E+05     7.6035E+07     3.8773E+04    2.0545E+08   7.5938E+09   4.3024E+08   1.1567E+09
                       Mean    2.8517E+03    1.3512E+11     6.8873E+08     8.6544E+07    7.8669E+05     1.6704E+08     3.4845E+05    4.0192E+08   1.2956E+10   9.4278E+08   2.7588E+09
       F1               Std    2.9271E+03    7.0630E+08     1.6210E+08     4.1883E+07    2.6999E+05     6.9993E+07     4.4701E+05    1.0596E+08   2.9357E+09   4.4807E+08   9.3678E+08
                       Rank         1            11              7              4             3              5              2             6           10            8            9
                       Best    2.5734E+03    2.5461E+05     1.2998E+05     3.6202E+04    6.9610E+03     5.7080E+04     2.8103E+04    1.0508E+05   1.2495E+05   8.5142E+04   8.8133E+04
                       Mean    5.5231E+03    1.5675E+06     1.6013E+05     5.4716E+04    1.2646E+04     1.0325E+05     4.8394E+04    1.4005E+05   1.5326E+05   1.3356E+05   1.3827E+05
       F2               Std    1.7185E+03    4.5821E+06     1.3530E+04     1.2483E+04    3.5464E+03     1.8245E+04     8.3873E+03    1.8679E+04   2.0486E+04   2.2917E+04   1.9125E+04
                       Rank         1            11             10              4             2              5              3             8            9            6            7
                       Best    4.7642E+02    4.1506E+04     7.1041E+02     5.8647E+02    4.9276E+02     5.9302E+02     4.2954E+02    6.7027E+02   1.5596E+03   6.5812E+02   7.6102E+02
                       Mean    5.4778E+02    5.5700E+04     7.8001E+02     6.5073E+02    5.7022E+02     6.8437E+02     5.1726E+02    7.7413E+02   2.2954E+03   8.7480E+02   9.0700E+02
       F3               Std    4.0575E+01    3.7760E+03     3.5786E+01     2.2762E+01    4.4658E+01     5.5145E+01     5.3526E+01    5.2179E+01   4.8432E+02   1.2401E+02   1.0004E+02
                       Rank         2            11              7              4             3              5              1             6           10            8            9
                       Best    7.4758E+02    1.3156E+03     8.4938E+02     7.4976E+02    8.3081E+02     6.3793E+02     6.4486E+02    7.3284E+02   8.9207E+02   7.4469E+02   7.4524E+02
                       Mean    7.7911E+02    1.3527E+03     8.9848E+02     8.1565E+02    8.5801E+02     7.1134E+02     7.2982E+02    8.0836E+02   9.5744E+02   8.2743E+02   8.0193E+02
       F4               Std    1.4673E+01    2.6714E+01     2.0168E+01     2.8152E+01    1.2455E+01     4.4418E+01     4.2303E+01    5.7194E+01   2.3723E+01   4.2789E+01   2.8019E+01
                       Rank         3            11              9              6             8              1              2             5           10            7            4
                       Best    6.0001E+02    7.0803E+02     6.0733E+02     6.0560E+02    6.0072E+02     6.0849E+02     6.0301E+02    6.1272E+02   6.2690E+02   6.2569E+02   6.0992E+02
                       Mean    6.0002E+02    7.1706E+02     6.1037E+02     6.0871E+02    6.0109E+02     6.1760E+02     6.1188E+02    6.2015E+02   6.4226E+02   6.4499E+02   6.1747E+02
       F5               Std    7.7178E-03    9.0086E+00     1.6222E+00     1.8354E+00    2.6473E-01     4.7498E+00     6.5775E+00    4.8722E+00   4.9215E+00   1.1735E+01   4.0195E+00
                       Rank         1            11              4              3             2              7              5             8            9           10            6
                       Best    9.8160E+02    2.1987E+03     1.1327E+03     1.0598E+03    1.0743E+03     1.0257E+03     8.9539E+02    1.1033E+03   1.2955E+03   1.0907E+03   1.0715E+03
                       Mean    1.0323E+03    2.2338E+03     1.1818E+03     1.0908E+03    1.1087E+03     1.0981E+03     1.0003E+03    1.1924E+03   1.3870E+03   1.3078E+03   1.1408E+03
       F6               Std    1.5797E+01    4.7037E+01     1.9328E+01     1.8159E+01    1.3347E+01     4.1775E+01     6.0251E+01    4.2940E+01   4.7642E+01   1.0490E+02   4.0208E+01
                       Rank         2            11              7              3             5              4              1             8           10            9            6
                       Best    1.0240E+03    1.5916E+03     1.1554E+03     1.0335E+03    1.1062E+03     9.3894E+02     9.5628E+02    9.6794E+02   1.1992E+03   1.0283E+03   1.0427E+03
                       Mean    1.0772E+03    1.6229E+03     1.1960E+03     1.1138E+03    1.1584E+03     1.0202E+03     1.0290E+03    1.0930E+03   1.2641E+03   1.1307E+03   1.1166E+03
       F7               Std    1.8567E+01    3.3004E+01     1.6907E+01     3.1735E+01    1.7242E+01     3.6137E+01     4.6512E+01    5.3815E+01   2.6081E+01   4.6686E+01   2.8551E+01
                       Rank         3            11              9              5             8              1              2             4           10            7            6
                       Best    9.0018E+02    3.6764E+04     1.1867E+03     1.1759E+03    9.0285E+02     1.7813E+03     4.3217E+03    1.6739E+03   6.7774E+03   9.0592E+03   2.0770E+03
                       Mean    9.0164E+02    5.9013E+04     1.7824E+03     1.3990E+03    9.0771E+02     5.7289E+03     8.8040E+03    4.1463E+03   1.0221E+04   1.9846E+04   4.0539E+03
       F8               Std    1.4258E+00    6.4422E+03     2.8044E+02     1.4490E+02    4.1750E+00     2.6091E+03     3.2487E+03    1.2682E+03   1.9007E+03   5.7257E+03   1.1967E+03
                       Rank         1            11              4              3             2              7              8             6            9           10            5
                       Best    1.0209E+04    1.2768E+04     1.4040E+04     1.2129E+04    1.3794E+04     6.9993E+03     5.3035E+03    1.3329E+04   1.3850E+04   7.6160E+03   1.1690E+04
                       Mean    1.1449E+04    1.4889E+04     1.4973E+04     1.3932E+04    1.4845E+04     8.4465E+03     6.9517E+03    1.4617E+04   1.4924E+04   1.0380E+04   1.3147E+04
       F9               Std    4.8002E+02    9.0451E+02     3.7070E+02     8.1625E+02    4.8090E+02     9.1692E+02     8.7379E+02    6.1705E+02   3.7685E+02   1.5513E+03   6.2884E+02
                       Rank         4             9             11              6             8              2              1             7           10            3            5
                       Best    1.1579E+03    3.6201E+04     3.3295E+03     1.3852E+03    1.2554E+03     1.4220E+03     1.1898E+03    1.5687E+03   3.5517E+03   1.6061E+03   2.2059E+03
                       Mean    1.2003E+03    5.5800E+04     4.1013E+03     1.5000E+03    1.3286E+03     1.7367E+03     1.2744E+03    1.7567E+03   5.0610E+03   1.8973E+03   2.9282E+03
       F10              Std    2.4902E+01    6.7233E+03     6.8966E+02     7.0642E+01    3.1763E+01     1.2695E+02     4.1114E+01    1.3102E+02   9.2993E+02   2.5197E+02   4.8175E+02
                       Rank         1            11              9              4             3              5              2             6           10            7            8
                       Best    1.7189E+05    7.6264E+10     4.3218E+07     6.1703E+06    9.2833E+05     6.1401E+07     6.5903E+06    2.0549E+07   7.2555E+08   1.3711E+07   6.8476E+07
                       Mean    5.5177E+05    1.0496E+11     6.7145E+07     1.6412E+07    2.5667E+06     1.9110E+08     2.7374E+07    5.0589E+07   1.4658E+09   4.7893E+07   1.6570E+08
       F11              Std    3.4008E+05    1.5978E+10     1.3997E+07     9.6656E+06    1.0227E+06     1.1738E+08     2.0812E+07    2.3085E+07   4.6421E+08   2.8927E+07   6.1621E+07
                       Rank         1            11              7              3             2              9              4             6           10            5            8
                       Best    2.4391E+03    3.1843E+10     9.7256E+05     3.6086E+04    2.1042E+04     2.8426E+05     9.7950E+03    7.8852E+04   7.9005E+07   3.0591E+04   5.3090E+05
                       Mean    3.5475E+03    4.9819E+10     1.6292E+06     1.0609E+05    3.6306E+04     9.6855E+05     4.5318E+04    3.4467E+05   1.9378E+08   9.4563E+04   1.8643E+06
       F12              Std    7.0586E+02    1.2436E+10     4.0098E+05     5.0874E+04    8.3680E+03     5.2810E+05     3.2309E+04    2.3570E+05   6.5900E+07   4.0260E+04   1.1958E+06
                       Rank         1            11              8              5             2              7              3             6           10            4            9
                       Best    1.4751E+03    1.7495E+07     7.5992E+04     1.8250E+03    1.6287E+03     5.2149E+04     2.3804E+04    6.8934E+04   8.0445E+04   1.4352E+04   5.1818E+04
                       Mean    1.5427E+03    1.3358E+08     2.6436E+05     3.4418E+03    1.6983E+03     3.4092E+05     2.5753E+05    2.5393E+05   3.6473E+05   1.9972E+05   2.0847E+05
       F13              Std    3.6079E+01    7.6838E+07     9.4448E+04     2.5264E+03    3.3378E+01     2.2575E+05     1.7116E+05    2.0534E+05   1.6057E+05   2.0699E+05   1.3496E+05
                       Rank         1            11              8              3             2              9              7             6           10            4            5
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                              35 of 41



                               Table A7. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS         AE        LSHADE       APSM-jSO       RIME       RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    1.7004E+03    6.7712E+09   6.1112E+04   1.0822E+04   3.1595E+03   3.2584E+04   2.8235E+03   5.9753E+03   7.6169E+06   3.5969E+03   2.9355E+04
                       Mean    1.8928E+03    1.8031E+10   1.5195E+05   3.2309E+04   4.9339E+03   2.4974E+05   1.8707E+04   1.3111E+04   2.7783E+07   1.2980E+04   7.3525E+04
       F14              Std    1.1971E+02    5.3589E+09   6.0069E+04   1.2740E+04   1.0462E+03   5.0344E+05   1.9226E+04   4.9386E+03   1.5484E+07   9.1785E+03   3.9862E+04
                       Rank         1            11            8            6            2            9            5            4           10            3            7
                       Best    3.4129E+03    9.1935E+03   4.0010E+03   3.8105E+03   3.8013E+03   2.7224E+03   2.3367E+03   2.2976E+03   4.8427E+03   2.7697E+03   3.0889E+03
                       Mean    4.1109E+03    1.1324E+04   4.4745E+03   4.4596E+03   4.5948E+03   3.6035E+03   3.3240E+03   3.1241E+03   5.2910E+03   3.5904E+03   3.5538E+03
       F15              Std    2.3387E+02    1.2373E+03   2.5125E+02   3.0966E+02   2.8464E+02   4.1564E+02   4.2303E+02   4.7547E+02   2.2717E+02   4.8634E+02   3.3505E+02
                       Rank         6            11            8            7            9            5            2            1           10            4            3
                       Best    3.0677E+03    1.1176E+04   3.6479E+03   3.1624E+03   3.1645E+03   2.4416E+03   2.1071E+03   2.4097E+03   3.7035E+03   2.3757E+03   2.4259E+03
                       Mean    3.4240E+03    1.1826E+05   3.8554E+03   3.5836E+03   3.7371E+03   3.1298E+03   2.9425E+03   2.9753E+03   4.1454E+03   3.0585E+03   3.1463E+03
       F16              Std    1.6574E+02    6.0937E+04   1.1687E+02   2.3375E+02   2.0361E+02   3.3966E+02   3.0160E+02   3.6048E+02   1.6166E+02   3.2802E+02   2.7815E+02
                       Rank         6            11            9            7            8            4            1            2           10            3            5
                       Best    1.9983E+03    5.7610E+07   1.5850E+06   2.0840E+04   3.1707E+03   3.0820E+05   2.6616E+05   4.2225E+05   1.9810E+06   4.2380E+05   2.1801E+05
                       Mean    2.1863E+03    3.6930E+08   2.6875E+06   5.7383E+04   5.8459E+03   4.1709E+06   3.1496E+06   2.1394E+06   5.7047E+06   2.0063E+06   2.1710E+06
       F17              Std    1.5880E+02    2.0653E+08   8.1533E+05   2.2422E+04   1.8646E+03   3.0919E+06   2.0306E+06   2.0346E+06   2.7423E+06   1.5498E+06   1.1872E+06
                       Rank         1            11            7            3            2            9            8            5           10            4            6
                       Best    1.9594E+03    3.4516E+09   8.0256E+04   4.9139E+03   2.2565E+03   5.4001E+04   2.1806E+03   4.0608E+03   5.2122E+06   3.3964E+03   4.2786E+04
                       Mean    2.0143E+03    7.6699E+09   1.8257E+05   2.5242E+04   2.9372E+03   1.5267E+06   1.4591E+04   1.6749E+04   1.2584E+07   1.4580E+04   3.6463E+05
       F18              Std    4.1762E+01    1.8775E+09   5.3654E+04   1.4147E+04   8.3088E+02   1.6546E+06   1.2773E+04   8.4849E+03   6.2772E+06   1.0566E+04   3.6527E+05
                       Rank         1            11            7            6            2            9            4            5           10            3            8
                       Best    2.9200E+03    4.0413E+03   3.2258E+03   3.1455E+03   3.2645E+03   2.5615E+03   2.3627E+03   2.8742E+03   3.6984E+03   2.5155E+03   2.5675E+03
                       Mean    3.4931E+03    4.7111E+03   3.9305E+03   3.6829E+03   3.9101E+03   3.1080E+03   2.9374E+03   3.6604E+03   4.0840E+03   3.1305E+03   3.2411E+03
       F19              Std    1.7500E+02    3.0960E+02   2.2372E+02   2.9979E+02   1.9964E+02   2.5026E+02   3.3466E+02   3.3226E+02   1.8454E+02   3.2618E+02   3.0061E+02
                       Rank         5            11            9            7            8            2            1            6           10            3            4
                       Best    2.5322E+03    3.1403E+03   2.6315E+03   2.5413E+03   2.6125E+03   2.4545E+03   2.4365E+03   2.4674E+03   2.7067E+03   2.5095E+03   2.5361E+03
                       Mean    2.5803E+03    3.3690E+03   2.6789E+03   2.6179E+03   2.6562E+03   2.5070E+03   2.4988E+03   2.5799E+03   2.7535E+03   2.5987E+03   2.5875E+03
       F20              Std    1.5172E+01    8.0721E+01   1.5664E+01   3.3937E+01   1.7707E+01   3.8421E+01   3.7862E+01   5.0364E+01   2.1107E+01   4.0482E+01   2.6456E+01
                       Rank         4            11            9            7            8            2            1            3           10            6            5
                       Best    2.3001E+03    1.4843E+04   5.0061E+03   3.2616E+03   2.4737E+03   8.0262E+03   7.1865E+03   2.4908E+03   1.4945E+04   2.6251E+03   2.9254E+03
                       Mean    1.2149E+04    1.7341E+04   1.5681E+04   1.5098E+04   1.5455E+04   1.0117E+04   8.8049E+03   7.5520E+03   1.6192E+04   1.1522E+04   1.3706E+04
       F21              Std    3.2318E+03    9.2034E+02   2.5391E+03   2.3974E+03   3.5481E+03   9.4581E+02   7.9747E+02   5.7162E+03   4.7156E+02   3.2781E+03   3.0753E+03
                       Rank         5            11            9            7            8            3            2            1           10            4            6
                       Best    2.9380E+03    4.2234E+03   3.0593E+03   3.0025E+03   3.0430E+03   2.8524E+03   2.8584E+03   3.0462E+03   3.1503E+03   3.0080E+03   2.9719E+03
                       Mean    3.0021E+03    4.7191E+03   3.1198E+03   3.0573E+03   3.0812E+03   2.9663E+03   2.9712E+03   3.1409E+03   3.2587E+03   3.1895E+03   3.0337E+03
       F22              Std    2.1591E+01    2.3406E+02   2.6752E+01   2.7820E+01   2.0977E+01   4.8006E+01   5.3163E+01   5.7024E+01   3.6419E+01   7.5567E+01   3.8387E+01
                       Rank         3            11            7            5            6            1            2            8           10            9            4
                       Best    2.9416E+03    4.5226E+03   3.2146E+03   3.1332E+03   3.1888E+03   3.0049E+03   3.0283E+03   3.1904E+03   3.3291E+03   3.2322E+03   3.1274E+03
                       Mean    3.1141E+03    5.1940E+03   3.2762E+03   3.2236E+03   3.2491E+03   3.1009E+03   3.1278E+03   3.3236E+03   3.4165E+03   3.3482E+03   3.1931E+03
       F23              Std    6.4476E+01    2.5858E+02   2.3540E+01   3.7138E+01   1.7997E+01   4.4582E+01   5.5563E+01   6.6596E+01   3.5291E+01   8.7159E+01   3.0711E+01
                       Rank         2            11            7            5            6            1            3            8           10            9            4
                       Best    2.9736E+03    1.9442E+04   3.1934E+03   3.0671E+03   2.9916E+03   3.0419E+03   2.9379E+03   3.1365E+03   3.9980E+03   3.2247E+03   3.2646E+03
                       Mean    3.0296E+03    1.9504E+04   3.2745E+03   3.0996E+03   3.0467E+03   3.1417E+03   3.0028E+03   3.2592E+03   4.6014E+03   3.3114E+03   3.4615E+03
       F24              Std    2.1650E+01    9.1548E+01   3.7974E+01   1.6360E+01   2.1419E+01   5.4620E+01   4.6577E+01   5.3801E+01   3.6621E+02   5.9852E+01   9.7124E+01
                       Rank         2            11            7            4            3            5            1            6           10            8            9
                       Best    4.5423E+03    1.8852E+04   7.4764E+03   6.2607E+03   6.6373E+03   3.4882E+03   2.9006E+03   3.9090E+03   8.3870E+03   3.6995E+03   6.1016E+03
                       Mean    6.0845E+03    1.9663E+04   7.8236E+03   6.7253E+03   7.0617E+03   6.0559E+03   4.1325E+03   7.1583E+03   9.1684E+03   7.5521E+03   6.8685E+03
       F25              Std    4.0086E+02    2.7371E+02   1.9561E+02   2.7576E+02   1.8993E+02   6.0319E+02   1.8467E+03   1.5724E+03   3.4099E+02   2.4724E+03   4.3141E+02
                       Rank         3            11            9            4            6            2            1            7           10            8            5
                       Best    3.2448E+03    5.7410E+03   3.4828E+03   3.3078E+03   3.2444E+03   3.3422E+03   3.2000E+03   3.5779E+03   3.8527E+03   3.6345E+03   3.5373E+03
                       Mean    3.3064E+03    7.4537E+03   3.6409E+03   3.4005E+03   3.2748E+03   3.4817E+03   3.2596E+03   3.7935E+03   4.0863E+03   3.8922E+03   3.6165E+03
       F26              Std    4.2092E+01    5.8978E+02   8.2932E+01   4.9043E+01   2.5987E+01   8.0812E+01   5.6865E+01   1.0545E+02   1.2702E+02   1.6709E+02   5.8717E+01
                       Rank         3            11            7            4            2            5            1            8           10            9            6
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                                         36 of 41



                               Table A7. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS            AE          LSHADE         APSM-jSO         RIME         RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    3.2593E+03     1.6734E+04     3.5239E+03     3.3414E+03     3.2650E+03     3.3573E+03     3.2563E+03   3.4409E+03   4.5866E+03   3.5337E+03   3.7823E+03
                       Mean    3.2867E+03     1.9329E+04     3.6940E+03     3.3884E+03     3.3116E+03     3.4933E+03     3.2994E+03   3.6144E+03   5.3313E+03   3.7592E+03   4.0716E+03
       F27              Std    2.3897E+01     1.1703E+03     1.0486E+02     2.3380E+01     2.1806E+01     8.1097E+01     3.0522E+01   1.1884E+02   4.0442E+02   1.4047E+02   1.8541E+02
                       Rank         1             11              7              4              3              5              2            6           10            8            9
                       Best    3.7557E+03     1.8325E+04     4.9786E+03     4.2669E+03     4.3046E+03     4.1416E+03     3.8382E+03   3.8890E+03   5.5302E+03   4.0426E+03   4.0729E+03
                       Mean    4.1403E+03     2.9872E+05     5.4517E+03     4.8537E+03     4.8356E+03     4.7579E+03     4.3055E+03   4.5815E+03   6.2126E+03   4.8858E+03   4.5321E+03
       F28              Std    2.2657E+02     2.6022E+05     2.3005E+02     2.5976E+02     2.1025E+02     3.9890E+02     3.3234E+02   3.6302E+02   3.1859E+02   4.8997E+02   3.2028E+02
                       Rank         1             11              9              7              6              5              2            4           10            8            3
                       Best    7.8257E+05     2.8747E+09     1.7100E+07     6.2304E+06     1.2985E+06     2.0167E+07     2.3065E+05   7.7012E+06   1.0520E+08   6.7975E+06   2.6337E+07
                       Mean    9.8976E+05     1.1380E+10     2.5235E+07     9.5422E+06     1.9701E+06     5.3858E+07     3.1582E+06   1.6510E+07   1.7985E+08   1.7509E+07   5.0427E+07
       F29              Std    1.3245E+05     3.3383E+09     4.4256E+06     2.5653E+06     3.3702E+05     2.3456E+07     1.9481E+06   4.2169E+06   4.5413E+07   7.6094E+06   1.7943E+07
                       Rank         1             11              7              4              2              9              3            5           10            6            8



                               Table A8. The statistical results of MSDCS and competition algorithms for solving CEC2017 (D = 100).

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS            AE          LSHADE         APSM-Jso         RIME         RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    1.3350E+04     2.9684E+11     2.6090E+09     2.9174E+08     8.0595E+06     8.5841E+08     3.0785E+05   2.2240E+09   3.8284E+10   7.6353E+09   1.5183E+10
                       Mean    2.9247E+04     2.9764E+11     3.6879E+09     4.9785E+08     1.5859E+07     1.4656E+09     3.3567E+06   3.3316E+09   5.5903E+10   1.2933E+10   2.1570E+10
       F1               Std    1.1532E+04     1.6287E+09     5.5874E+08     1.2670E+08     5.9913E+06     4.6316E+08     5.0088E+06   5.2953E+08   7.3869E+09   3.1514E+09   4.5282E+09
                       Rank         1             11              7              4              3              5              2            6           10            8            9
                       Best    4.7915E+04     3.6664E+05     2.9412E+05     1.4678E+05     4.6562E+04     2.5071E+05     1.4082E+05   2.8031E+05   2.7783E+05   2.5892E+05   2.9198E+05
                       Mean    6.6450E+04     1.6169E+06     3.3820E+05     1.7255E+05     6.7962E+04     3.7506E+05     1.7517E+05   3.5681E+05   3.5498E+05   2.8973E+05   3.6448E+05
       F2               Std    1.1398E+04     3.5697E+06     1.4640E+04     2.0569E+04     1.0281E+04     5.1070E+04     1.8732E+04   3.2608E+04   3.4888E+04   1.9080E+04   4.3300E+04
                       Rank         1             11              6              3              2             10              4            8            7            5            9
                       Best    6.2864E+02     1.2914E+05     1.1603E+03     7.8044E+02     6.9022E+02     9.2486E+02     5.5629E+02   1.1546E+03   4.8246E+03   1.9266E+03   2.0024E+03
                       Mean    7.0445E+02     1.5964E+05     1.3172E+03     8.8262E+02     7.5663E+02     1.1549E+03     7.0548E+02   1.4575E+03   7.5043E+03   2.3761E+03   2.6752E+03
       F3               Std    4.3913E+01     5.8754E+03     8.0855E+01     4.8852E+01     3.3427E+01     1.6176E+02     7.2881E+01   1.7453E+02   1.3289E+03   3.0475E+02   4.6118E+02
                       Rank         1             11              6              4              3              5              2            7           10            8            9
                       Best    1.1591E+03     2.3076E+03     1.3471E+03     1.1186E+03     1.2460E+03     9.3697E+02     9.3687E+02   1.1064E+03   1.5342E+03   1.2689E+03   1.1842E+03
                       Mean    1.2082E+03     2.3276E+03     1.4489E+03     1.2015E+03     1.3060E+03     1.1018E+03     1.0623E+03   1.2590E+03   1.6018E+03   1.3688E+03   1.2910E+03
       F4               Std    2.9011E+01     1.8753E+01     5.0899E+01     4.5381E+01     2.2262E+01     8.3525E+01     8.0549E+01   6.4184E+01   3.4505E+01   5.4262E+01   4.9968E+01
                       Rank         4             11              9              3              7              2              1            5           10            8            6
                       Best    6.0009E+02     7.2008E+02     6.1287E+02     6.0862E+02     6.0166E+02     6.2507E+02     6.1001E+02   6.3322E+02   6.4475E+02   6.5439E+02   6.2587E+02
                       Mean    6.0019E+02     7.2459E+02     6.1626E+02     6.1154E+02     6.0259E+02     6.3379E+02     6.2418E+02   6.4223E+02   6.5645E+02   6.6531E+02   6.3553E+02
       F5               Std    4.9376E-02     3.7810E+00     1.5777E+00     1.5940E+00     5.3474E-01     4.0863E+00     6.1948E+00   5.9726E+00   4.5676E+00   6.9985E+00   4.5964E+00
                       Rank         1             11              4              3              2              6              5            8            9           10            7
                       Best    1.4090E+03     4.2344E+03     1.6990E+03     1.4690E+03     1.5474E+03     1.6492E+03     1.2379E+03   1.7421E+03   2.2776E+03   2.1412E+03   1.7926E+03
                       Mean    1.4928E+03     4.3151E+03     1.7786E+03     1.5668E+03     1.6237E+03     1.8791E+03     1.4988E+03   1.9292E+03   2.4752E+03   2.6372E+03   1.9948E+03
       F6               Std    2.6487E+01     4.4668E+01     2.9735E+01     4.7091E+01     2.8969E+01     1.1242E+02     1.5958E+02   7.2153E+01   1.2859E+02   2.5664E+02   9.0620E+01
                       Rank         1             11              5              3              4              6              2            7            9           10            8
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                              37 of 41



                               Table A8. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS         AE        LSHADE       APSM-Jso       RIME       RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    1.4618E+03    2.7360E+03   1.6554E+03   1.4301E+03   1.5353E+03   1.2154E+03   1.1941E+03   1.4953E+03   1.8261E+03   1.5400E+03   1.4679E+03
                       Mean    1.5050E+03    2.7783E+03   1.7483E+03   1.5189E+03   1.6056E+03   1.3972E+03   1.3404E+03   1.6019E+03   1.9144E+03   1.7316E+03   1.5797E+03
       F7               Std    2.3491E+01    4.2030E+01   3.7612E+01   5.1068E+01   2.8396E+01   8.8138E+01   8.2532E+01   6.0702E+01   4.0603E+01   1.0080E+02   5.6604E+01
                       Rank         3            11            9            4            7            2            1            6           10            8            5
                       Best    9.3759E+02    1.0399E+05   5.4226E+03   1.9435E+03   9.4932E+02   1.3390E+04   1.2086E+04   1.2195E+04   2.8904E+04   3.1287E+04   1.2322E+04
                       Mean    9.9044E+02    1.1248E+05   6.8974E+03   3.0474E+03   1.0389E+03   2.6553E+04   2.4118E+04   2.8892E+04   3.4249E+04   4.9525E+04   2.3193E+04
       F8               Std    3.9379E+01    6.0070E+03   1.2710E+03   6.5567E+02   6.1779E+01   9.2911E+03   5.1026E+03   7.6037E+03   3.0445E+03   9.7716E+03   5.3367E+03
                       Rank         1            11            4            3            2            7            6            8            9           10            5
                       Best    2.4778E+04    2.9275E+04   2.9969E+04   2.5728E+04   3.0376E+04   1.6730E+04   1.1350E+04   2.9385E+04   3.0253E+04   1.6105E+04   2.5259E+04
                       Mean    2.5680E+04    3.1473E+04   3.1819E+04   2.9168E+04   3.1842E+04   1.9530E+04   1.4314E+04   3.1258E+04   3.1654E+04   2.1769E+04   2.8185E+04
       F9               Std    4.5864E+02    1.2612E+03   7.5126E+02   1.3505E+03   5.5021E+02   1.6465E+03   1.3525E+03   7.5523E+02   6.1466E+02   3.5483E+03   1.4281E+03
                       Rank         4             8           10            6           11            2            1            7            9            3            5
                       Best    1.9592E+03    2.4012E+05   4.9933E+04   4.0350E+03   2.1346E+03   7.1013E+03   2.2200E+03   3.7837E+04   4.0356E+04   5.2662E+04   3.8626E+04
                       Mean    2.2330E+03    5.0035E+05   6.7846E+04   6.2837E+03   2.5840E+03   1.1354E+04   2.7605E+03   6.1852E+04   7.3882E+04   6.5593E+04   5.9875E+04
       F10              Std    1.8827E+02    1.4673E+05   1.2338E+04   1.4875E+03   2.0304E+02   2.9310E+03   2.8835E+02   1.4458E+04   1.1044E+04   8.1461E+03   1.1507E+04
                       Rank         1            11            9            4            2            5            3            7           10            8            6
                       Best    1.2667E+06    2.0781E+11   4.8488E+08   3.9720E+07   8.8760E+06   3.6094E+08   2.8820E+07   3.0530E+08   6.5630E+09   3.9521E+08   8.9452E+08
                       Mean    4.7159E+06    2.5449E+11   6.1856E+08   1.1104E+08   2.3810E+07   9.0860E+08   1.8844E+08   5.8245E+08   8.8107E+09   7.2175E+08   1.3499E+09
       F11              Std    2.5222E+06    1.4336E+10   8.7346E+07   4.2713E+07   1.0507E+07   3.3934E+08   8.4431E+07   1.8915E+08   1.7059E+09   2.0701E+08   2.9808E+08
                       Rank         1            11            6            3            2            8            4            5           10            7            9
                       Best    3.5128E+03    3.5757E+10   1.4217E+06   3.2577E+04   2.3581E+04   8.5149E+05   2.0374E+04   5.9674E+05   2.0921E+08   1.9798E+05   2.5229E+06
                       Mean    7.5280E+03    6.2823E+10   2.6871E+06   4.7951E+04   3.1703E+04   3.1786E+06   5.2340E+04   1.1260E+06   5.8124E+08   5.8425E+05   7.9870E+06
       F12              Std    2.9964E+03    5.7740E+09   6.1405E+05   9.9427E+03   5.8564E+03   1.8120E+06   2.5284E+04   2.9597E+05   2.2985E+08   2.4476E+05   3.8984E+06
                       Rank         1            11            7            3            2            8            4            6           10            5            9
                       Best    1.6734E+03    1.6766E+08   1.6814E+06   8.9207E+03   2.0717E+03   1.1704E+06   3.3716E+05   9.0726E+05   3.0731E+06   7.3809E+05   1.4504E+06
                       Mean    1.8192E+03    3.0448E+08   2.8006E+06   4.0016E+04   2.2824E+03   4.6634E+06   1.6296E+06   1.6692E+06   4.8133E+06   2.0851E+06   3.6329E+06
       F13              Std    9.2321E+01    3.4149E+07   6.3487E+05   2.3752E+04   1.5681E+02   2.1901E+06   9.0448E+05   5.8006E+05   1.1471E+06   1.0199E+06   1.3470E+06
                       Rank         1            11            7            3            2            9            4            5           10            6            8
                       Best    2.0984E+03    2.3488E+10   1.7170E+05   1.8415E+04   9.8597E+03   1.3014E+05   1.3160E+04   2.3144E+04   2.8296E+07   1.8102E+04   1.2471E+05
                       Mean    2.5738E+03    3.4015E+10   2.3135E+05   2.8697E+04   1.7787E+04   5.8427E+05   3.3717E+04   5.4552E+04   1.0111E+08   3.1364E+04   2.7507E+05
       F14              Std    4.7907E+02    4.7886E+09   3.5246E+04   7.9118E+03   3.7618E+03   4.0695E+05   1.4200E+04   1.5301E+04   5.2012E+07   1.0669E+04   1.2804E+05
                       Rank         1            11            7            3            2            9            5            6           10            4            8
                       Best    7.1139E+03    2.1235E+04   8.7712E+03   6.4232E+03   8.3254E+03   4.6307E+03   3.8843E+03   4.6268E+03   9.1373E+03   4.5869E+03   5.2187E+03
                       Mean    8.3202E+03    3.0307E+04   9.5862E+03   8.3067E+03   9.1585E+03   6.5446E+03   5.4145E+03   5.9189E+03   1.0795E+04   6.4693E+03   7.0781E+03
       F15              Std    5.0722E+02    3.7320E+03   3.4883E+02   6.7186E+02   3.8193E+02   8.9291E+02   7.7728E+02   7.4864E+02   5.1507E+02   9.0729E+02   6.8898E+02
                       Rank         7            11            9            6            8            4            1            2           10            3            5
                       Best    5.7313E+03    3.0078E+06   5.9553E+03   5.4573E+03   6.1223E+03   4.2969E+03   3.8511E+03   4.0112E+03   7.2091E+03   3.7855E+03   3.5796E+03
                       Mean    6.3100E+03    1.6464E+07   6.8110E+03   6.3693E+03   6.7019E+03   5.3021E+03   4.8435E+03   4.9971E+03   7.6751E+03   5.0748E+03   5.0650E+03
       F16              Std    2.8006E+02    1.2849E+07   2.8416E+02   2.9334E+02   2.6908E+02   4.3439E+02   6.1655E+02   7.3385E+02   2.7347E+02   6.2899E+02   5.4916E+02
                       Rank         6            11            9            7            8            5            1            2           10            4            3
                       Best    5.5823E+03    2.4359E+08   1.4635E+06   8.1939E+04   1.7603E+04   2.4134E+06   1.0154E+06   1.7058E+06   3.8746E+06   1.0686E+06   2.0002E+06
                       Mean    1.5792E+04    6.2649E+08   2.9510E+06   1.5400E+05   3.6271E+04   6.9883E+06   2.7154E+06   3.1938E+06   7.4320E+06   3.0362E+06   4.0813E+06
       F17              Std    6.7405E+03    2.0734E+08   6.1231E+05   5.4708E+04   1.1151E+04   3.8996E+06   1.4284E+06   9.9958E+05   3.2136E+06   1.5342E+06   1.7649E+06
                       Rank         1            11            5            3            2            9            4            7           10            6            8
                       Best    2.1620E+03    2.1978E+10   4.9815E+05   3.6823E+04   5.9842E+03   1.7404E+06   6.0233E+03   5.0827E+04   3.1849E+07   1.8310E+04   7.5135E+05
                       Mean    2.5742E+03    3.4442E+10   1.1954E+06   1.1958E+05   1.0889E+04   9.8199E+06   1.5620E+05   1.1335E+05   1.1486E+08   4.6588E+04   2.5222E+06
       F18              Std    5.8195E+02    5.3839E+09   2.5174E+05   5.0477E+04   3.2431E+03   5.2220E+06   1.6908E+05   4.7776E+04   5.4582E+07   1.9119E+04   1.5209E+06
                       Rank         1            11            7            5            2            9            6            4           10            3            8
                       Best    5.4619E+03    7.4799E+03   5.9137E+03   5.6594E+03   6.4142E+03   3.6402E+03   4.0073E+03   5.0120E+03   7.1349E+03   4.1843E+03   5.0990E+03
                       Mean    6.6378E+03    8.4735E+03   7.2558E+03   6.5595E+03   7.3112E+03   5.1300E+03   5.0291E+03   7.0399E+03   7.5837E+03   5.2535E+03   5.9544E+03
       F19              Std    3.3192E+02    4.2787E+02   3.4993E+02   5.9728E+02   2.6479E+02   5.7097E+02   4.6037E+02   5.2714E+02   2.2483E+02   5.0979E+02   4.2577E+02
                       Rank         6            11            8            5            9            2            1            7           10            3            4
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                                                              38 of 41



                               Table A8. Cont.

    Function           Index    MSDCS            DCS         AE        LSHADE       APSM-Jso       RIME       RDGMVO         QIO        MTVSCA        MRFO         EOSMA
                       Best    2.9730E+03    4.6856E+03   3.0790E+03   2.9175E+03   3.0559E+03   2.7736E+03   2.6847E+03   2.9463E+03   3.3409E+03   3.0479E+03   2.9842E+03
                       Mean    3.0369E+03    5.0808E+03   3.2159E+03   3.0310E+03   3.1277E+03   2.9441E+03   2.8131E+03   3.1630E+03   3.4260E+03   3.2314E+03   3.0832E+03
       F20              Std    2.7201E+01    1.6133E+02   4.8394E+01   4.4675E+01   2.6831E+01   6.4723E+01   7.8292E+01   1.0070E+02   4.0333E+01   9.7268E+01   5.6106E+01
                       Rank         4            11            8            3            6            2            1            7           10            9            5
                       Best    2.6611E+04    3.1184E+04   3.2979E+04   2.8966E+04   3.2107E+04   1.8578E+04   1.3726E+04   4.3499E+03   3.3217E+04   2.0156E+04   2.9348E+04
                       Mean    2.8066E+04    3.3962E+04   3.4045E+04   3.2062E+04   3.4017E+04   2.1706E+04   1.6985E+04   2.9588E+04   3.4046E+04   2.3821E+04   3.1126E+04
       F21              Std    6.5354E+02    1.6898E+03   4.2626E+02   1.4972E+03   5.7174E+02   1.4694E+03   1.6378E+03   9.6311E+03   4.1340E+02   2.4045E+03   1.0010E+03
                       Rank         4             8           10            7            9            2            1            5           11            3            6
                       Best    3.2917E+03    6.3739E+03   3.6917E+03   3.4780E+03   3.5852E+03   3.2571E+03   3.1788E+03   3.8314E+03   3.9714E+03   3.8453E+03   3.5059E+03
                       Mean    3.4768E+03    7.2035E+03   3.7715E+03   3.5989E+03   3.6495E+03   3.4058E+03   3.2992E+03   4.0536E+03   4.0920E+03   4.0494E+03   3.5918E+03
       F22              Std    6.3651E+01    3.6756E+02   4.0248E+01   5.4635E+01   2.6604E+01   7.6410E+01   9.0792E+01   9.0025E+01   4.8070E+01   1.3431E+02   6.5157E+01
                       Rank         3            11            7            5            6            2            1            9           10            8            4
                       Best    3.4257E+03    1.0259E+04   4.0767E+03   3.8864E+03   3.8809E+03   3.7490E+03   3.7149E+03   4.4364E+03   4.6004E+03   4.4583E+03   3.8561E+03
                       Mean    3.8404E+03    1.2160E+04   4.1710E+03   4.0282E+03   4.0436E+03   3.9611E+03   3.8646E+03   4.7078E+03   4.7680E+03   4.9988E+03   4.1086E+03
       F23              Std    1.7943E+02    7.5770E+02   5.4600E+01   5.8159E+01   4.7968E+01   1.0300E+02   1.0616E+02   1.5237E+02   8.0013E+01   2.3621E+02   8.5560E+01
                       Rank         1            11            7            4            5            3            2            8            9           10            6
                       Best    3.2107E+03    3.5072E+04   4.0130E+03   3.4843E+03   3.3492E+03   3.6022E+03   3.2535E+03   3.8445E+03   6.7517E+03   4.2522E+03   4.5991E+03
                       Mean    3.3364E+03    3.5190E+04   4.1584E+03   3.5901E+03   3.4472E+03   3.9110E+03   3.3324E+03   4.1443E+03   8.5113E+03   4.8992E+03   5.2514E+03
       F24              Std    4.4704E+01    2.8393E+02   8.0259E+01   4.5029E+01   3.5417E+01   1.3813E+02   4.5147E+01   1.5060E+02   7.9161E+02   3.6275E+02   3.0451E+02
                       Rank         2            11            7            4            3            5            1            6           10            8            9
                       Best    7.5090E+03    5.8927E+04   1.3554E+04   1.1051E+04   1.2033E+04   1.1329E+04   2.9093E+03   1.4576E+04   1.8088E+04   1.7904E+04   1.3352E+04
                       Mean    1.0466E+04    5.9128E+04   1.4982E+04   1.2740E+04   1.3078E+04   1.2961E+04   1.1075E+04   1.7094E+04   1.9747E+04   2.2545E+04   1.5816E+04
       F25              Std    1.5928E+03    2.8464E+02   6.1984E+02   6.8543E+02   4.5939E+02   9.8637E+02   2.9500E+03   1.4330E+03   9.1925E+02   2.1674E+03   1.4620E+03
                       Rank         1            11            6            3            5            4            2            8            9           10            7
                       Best    3.4145E+03    1.1040E+04   3.5954E+03   3.4616E+03   3.3259E+03   3.5830E+03   3.2000E+03   3.8978E+03   4.6568E+03   4.0930E+03   3.7876E+03
                       Mean    3.5102E+03    1.4078E+04   3.6787E+03   3.5132E+03   3.3865E+03   3.8099E+03   3.4104E+03   4.1924E+03   5.0614E+03   4.4765E+03   3.9900E+03
       F26              Std    4.5557E+01    1.0569E+03   4.9431E+01   4.2008E+01   3.5469E+01   1.1238E+02   9.9408E+01   1.5809E+02   2.0915E+02   2.3876E+02   7.8490E+01
                       Rank         3            11            5            4            1            6            2            8           10            9            7
                       Best    3.4018E+03    3.3561E+04   4.2417E+03   3.6196E+03   3.4565E+03   3.8013E+03   3.3000E+03   4.0923E+03   9.4709E+03   4.8327E+03   5.6504E+03
                       Mean    3.4740E+03    3.3676E+04   4.7669E+03   3.7329E+03   3.5146E+03   4.3922E+03   3.3829E+03   4.4410E+03   1.1528E+04   6.0752E+03   6.9347E+03
       F27              Std    3.7747E+01    1.7309E+02   1.9307E+02   7.8632E+01   3.6432E+01   3.3406E+02   4.8152E+01   2.9596E+02   1.2756E+03   7.0412E+02   7.0042E+02
                       Rank         2            11            7            4            3            5            1            6           10            8            9
                       Best    6.4399E+03    5.1267E+05   9.1981E+03   7.4407E+03   7.7059E+03   6.8929E+03   5.2296E+03   6.9089E+03   1.0621E+04   6.7636E+03   6.7368E+03
                       Mean    7.6775E+03    2.5900E+06   9.6933E+03   8.3053E+03   8.5328E+03   8.0339E+03   6.6144E+03   7.9841E+03   1.1761E+04   8.4543E+03   7.8698E+03
       F28              Std    5.6542E+02    1.5417E+06   3.1795E+02   5.0628E+02   3.2060E+02   5.2575E+02   5.8245E+02   6.1511E+02   4.7623E+02   6.3440E+02   6.5880E+02
                       Rank         2            11            9            6            8            5            1            4           10            7            3
                       Best    1.6410E+04    3.1111E+10   1.3787E+07   8.3148E+05   1.5889E+05   4.9164E+07   8.3244E+05   4.0824E+06   2.1821E+08   2.6460E+06   1.5559E+07
                       Mean    2.4630E+04    5.3962E+10   1.8034E+07   1.7651E+06   2.7604E+05   1.2455E+08   3.0859E+06   7.5934E+06   3.7668E+08   6.1551E+06   3.9944E+07
       F29              Std    5.7492E+03    7.5814E+09   3.0011E+06   6.4832E+05   6.9520E+04   5.1296E+07   2.0484E+06   2.6471E+06   1.2285E+08   2.9525E+06   1.6127E+07
                       Rank         1            11            7            3            2            9            4            6           10            5            8
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                      39 of 41



References
1.    Jin, B.; Vai, M.I. An Adaptive Ultrasonic Backscattered Signal Processing Technique for Accurate Object Localization Based on the
      Instantaneous Energy Density Level. J. Med. Imaging Heal. Inform. 2015, 5, 1059–1064. [CrossRef]
2.    Slowik, A.; Kwasnicka, H. Nature Inspired Methods and Their Industry Applications-Swarm Intelligence Algorithms. IEEE Trans.
      Ind. Inform. 2018, 14, 1004–1015. [CrossRef]
3.    Tang, A.; Zhou, H.; Han, T.; Xie, L. A Modified Manta Ray Foraging Optimization for Global Optimization Problems. IEEE Access
      2021, 9, 128702–128721. [CrossRef]
4.    Jin, B.; Gonçalves, N.; Cruz, L.; Medvedev, I.; Yu, Y.; Wang, J. Simulated Multimodal Deep Facial Diagnosis. Expert Syst. Appl.
      2024, 252, 123881. [CrossRef]
5.    Tang, A.-D.; Tang, S.Q.; Han, T.; Zhou, H.; Xie, L. A Modified Slime Mould Algorithm for Global Optimization. Comput. Intell.
      Neurosci. 2021, 2021, 2298215. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
6.    Dai, M.; Tang, D.; Giret, A.; Salido, M.A. Multi-Objective Optimization for Energy-Efficient Flexible Job Shop Scheduling Problem
      with Transportation Constraints. Robot. Comput. Integr. Manuf. 2019, 59, 143–157. [CrossRef]
7.    Tang, A.; Zhou, H.; Han, T.; Xie, L. A Chaos Sparrow Search Algorithm with Logarithmic Spiral and Adaptive Step for Engineering
      Problems. Comput. Model. Eng. Sci. 2021, 130, 331–364. [CrossRef]
8.    Shen, X.; Du, S.C.; Sun, Y.N.; Sun, P.Z.H.; Law, R.; Wu, E.Q. Advance Scheduling for Chronic Care Under Online or Offline Revisit
      Uncertainty. IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci. Eng. 2023, 21, 5297–5310. [CrossRef]
9.    Cao, B.; Fan, S.; Zhao, J.; Tian, S.; Zheng, Z.; Yan, Y.; Yang, P. Large-Scale Many-Objective Deployment Optimization of Edge
      Servers. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2021, 22, 3841–3849. [CrossRef]
10.   Zeng, N.; Wang, Z.; Liu, W.; Zhang, H.; Hone, K.; Liu, X. A Dynamic Neighborhood-Based Switching Particle Swarm Optimization
      Algorithm. IEEE Trans. Cybern. 2022, 52, 9290–9301. [CrossRef]
11.   Wang, C.; Koh, J.M.; Yu, T.; Xie, N.G.; Cheong, K.H. Material and Shape Optimization of Bi-Directional Functionally Graded
      Plates by GIGA and an Improved Multi-Objective Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng.
      2020, 366, 113017. [CrossRef]
12.   Zhao, W.; Du, C.; Jiang, S. An Adaptive Multiscale Approach for Identifying Multiple Flaws Based on XFEM and a Discrete
      Artificial Fish Swarm Algorithm. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 2018, 339, 341–357. [CrossRef]
13.   Tang, A.D.; Han, T.; Zhou, H.; Xie, L. An Improved Equilibrium Optimizer with Application in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Path
      Planning. Sensors 2021, 21, 1814. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
14.   Hu, G.; Huang, F.Y.; Shu, B.; Wei, G. MAHACO: Multi-Algorithm Hybrid Ant Colony Optimizer for 3D Path Planning of a Group
      of UAVs. Inf. Sci. 2025, 694, 121714. [CrossRef]
15.   Sowmya, R.; Premkumar, M.; Jangir, P. Newton-Raphson-Based Optimizer: A New Population-Based Metaheuristic Algorithm
      for Continuous Optimization Problems. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2024, 128, 107532. [CrossRef]
16.   Houssein, E.H.; Saad, M.R.; Çelik, E.; Hu, G.; Ali, A.A.; Shaban, H. An Enhanced Sea-Horse Optimizer for Solving Global
      Problems and Cluster Head Selection in Wireless Sensor Networks. Clust. Comput. J. Netw. Softw. Tools Appl. 2024, 27, 7775–7802.
      [CrossRef]
17.   Abualigah, L.; Habash, M.; Hanandeh, E.S.; Hussein, A.M.A.; Shinwan, M.A.; Zitar, R.A.; Jia, H. Improved Reptile Search
      Algorithm by Salp Swarm Algorithm for Medical Image Segmentation. J. Bionic Eng. 2023, 20, 1766–1790. [CrossRef]
18.   Hu, G.; Zheng, Y.X.; Houssein, E.H.; Wei, G. GSRPSO: A Multi-Strategy Integrated Particle Swarm Algorithm for Multi-Threshold
      Segmentation of Real Cervical Cancer Images. Swarm Evol. Comput. 2024, 91, 101766. [CrossRef]
19.   Seyyedabbasi, A.; Hu, G.; Shehadeh, H.A.; Wang, X.P.; Canatalay, P.J. V-Shaped and S-Shaped Binary Artificial Protozoa Optimizer
      (APO) Algorithm for Wrapper Feature Selection on Biological Data. Clust. Comput. J. Netw. Softw. Tools Appl. 2025, 28, 1–32.
      [CrossRef]
20.   Jia, H.; Sun, K.; Li, Y.; Cao, N. Improved Marine Predators Algorithm for Feature Selection and SVM Optimization. KSII Trans.
      Internet Inf. Syst. 2022, 16, 1128–1145. [CrossRef]
21.   Holland, J.H. Genetic Algorithms. Sci. Am. 1992, 267, 66–72. [CrossRef]
22.   Beyer, H.-G.; Schwefel, H.-P. Evolution Strategies—A Comprehensive Introduction. Nat. Comput. 2002, 1, 3–52. [CrossRef]
23.   Opara, K.R.; Arabas, J. Differential Evolution: A Survey of Theoretical Analyses. Swarm Evol. Comput. 2019, 44, 546–558.
      [CrossRef]
24.   Hansen, N.; Ostermeier, A. Completely Derandomized Self-Adaptation in Evolution Strategies. Evol. Comput. 2001, 9, 159–195.
      [CrossRef] [PubMed]
25.   Lian, J.; Hui, G. Human Evolutionary Optimization Algorithm. Expert Syst. Appl. 2024, 241, 122638. [CrossRef]
26.   Dong, Y.C.; Zhang, S.H.; Zhang, H.L.; Zhou, X.J.; Jiang, J.D. Chaotic Evolution Optimization: A Novel Metaheuristic Algorithm
      Inspired by Chaotic Dynamics. Chaos Solitons Fractals 2025, 192, 116049. [CrossRef]
27.   Mirjalili, S.; Mirjalili, S.M.; Hatamlou, A. Multi-Verse Optimizer: A Nature-Inspired Algorithm for Global Optimization. Neural
      Comput. Appl. 2016, 27, 495–513. [CrossRef]
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                     40 of 41



28.   Hashim, F.A.; Mostafa, R.R.; Hussien, A.G.; Mirjalili, S.; Sallam, K.M. Fick’s Law Algorithm: A Physical Law-Based Algorithm for
      Numerical Optimization. Knowl.-Based Syst. 2023, 260, 110146. [CrossRef]
29.   Deng, L.; Liu, S. Snow Ablation Optimizer: A Novel Metaheuristic Technique for Numerical Optimization and Engineering
      Design. Expert Syst. Appl. 2023, 225, 120069. [CrossRef]
30.   Yuan, C.; Zhao, D.; Heidari, A.A.; Liu, L.; Chen, Y.; Chen, H. Polar Lights Optimizer: Algorithm and Applications in Image
      Segmentation and Feature Selection. Neurocomputing 2024, 607, 128427. [CrossRef]
31.   Goodarzimehr, V.; Shojaee, S.; Hamzehei-Javaran, S.; Talatahari, S. Special Relativity Search: A Novel Metaheuristic Method
      Based on Special Relativity Physics. Knowl.-Based Syst. 2022, 257, 109484. [CrossRef]
32.   He, J.H.; Zhao, S.J.; Ding, J.Y.; Wang, Y.M. Mirage Search Optimization: Application to Path Planning and Engineering Design
      Problems. Adv. Eng. Softw. 2025, 203, 103883. [CrossRef]
33.   Abdel-Basset, M.; Mohamed, R.; Azeem, S.A.A.; Jameel, M.; Abouhawwash, M. Kepler Optimization Algorithm: A New
      Metaheuristic Algorithm Inspired by Kepler’s Laws of Planetary Motion. Knowl.-Based Syst. 2023, 268, 110454. [CrossRef]
34.   Mirjalili, S. SCA: A Sine Cosine Algorithm for Solving Optimization Problems. Knowl.-Based Syst. 2016, 96, 120–133. [CrossRef]
35.   Abualigah, L.; Diabat, A.; Mirjalili, S.; Abd Elaziz, M.; Gandomi, A.H. The Arithmetic Optimization Algorithm. Comput. Methods
      Appl. Mech. Eng. 2021, 376, 113609. [CrossRef]
36.   Beltran, L.A.; Navarro, M.A.; Oliva, D.; Campos-Peña, D.; Ramos-Frutos, J.; Zapotecas-Martínez, S. Quasi-Random Fractal Search
      (QRFS): A Dynamic Metaheuristic with Sigmoid Population Decrement for Global Optimization. Expert Syst. Appl. 2024, 254,
      124400. [CrossRef]
37.   Cheng, J.; De Waele, W. Weighted Average Algorithm: A Novel Meta-Heuristic Optimization Algorithm Based on the Weighted
      Average Position Concept. Knowl.-Based Syst. 2024, 305, 112564. [CrossRef]
38.   Zhao, S.J.; Zhang, T.R.; Cai, L.; Yang, R.H. Triangulation Topology Aggregation Optimizer: A Novel Mathematics-Based
      Meta-Heuristic Algorithm for Continuous Optimization and Engineering Applications. Expert Syst. Appl. 2024, 238, 121744.
      [CrossRef]
39.   Luan, T.M.; Khatir, S.; Tran, M.T.; De Baets, B.; Cuong-Le, T. Exponential-Trigonometric Optimization Algorithm for Solving
      Complicated Engineering Problems. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 2024, 432, 117411. [CrossRef]
40.   Huang, W.; Xu, J. Particle Swarm Optimization. In Springer Tracts in Civil Engineering; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany,
      2023.
41.   Dorigo, M.; Di Caro, G. Ant Colony Optimization: A New Meta-Heuristic. In Proceedings of the 1999 Congress on Evolutionary
      Computation, CEC, Washington, DC, USA, 6–9 July 1999.
42.   Mirjalili, S.; Mirjalili, S.M.; Lewis, A. Grey Wolf Optimizer. Adv. Eng. Softw. 2014, 69, 46–61. [CrossRef]
43.   Xiao, Y.N.; Cui, H.; Abu Khurma, R.; Castillo, P.A. Artificial Lemming Algorithm: A Novel Bionic Meta-Heuristic Technique for
      Solving Real-World Engineering Optimization Problems. Artif. Intell. Rev. 2025, 58, 84. [CrossRef]
44.   Jia, H.; Rao, H.; Wen, C.; Mirjalili, S. Crayfish Optimization Algorithm. Artif. Intell. Rev. 2023, 56, 1919–1979. [CrossRef]
45.   Agushaka, J.O.; Ezugwu, A.E.; Abualigah, L. Dwarf Mongoose Optimization Algorithm. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 2022,
      391, 114570. [CrossRef]
46.   Hu, G.; Cheng, M.; Houssein, E.H.; Hussien, A.G.; Abualigah, L. SDO: A Novel Sled Dog-Inspired Optimizer for Solving
      Engineering Problems. Adv. Eng. Inform. 2024, 62, 102783. [CrossRef]
47.   Li, S.; Chen, H.; Wang, M.; Heidari, A.A.; Mirjalili, S. Slime Mould Algorithm: A New Method for Stochastic Optimization. Futur.
      Gener. Comput. Syst. 2020, 111, 300–323. [CrossRef]
48.   Wang, W.C.; Tian, W.C.; Xu, D.M.; Zang, H.F. Arctic Puffin Optimization: A Bio-Inspired Metaheuristic Algorithm for Solving
      Engineering Design Optimization. Adv. Eng. Softw. 2024, 195, 103694. [CrossRef]
49.   Hu, G.; Guo, Y.; Wei, G.; Abualigah, L. Genghis Khan Shark Optimizer: A Novel Nature-Inspired Algorithm for Engineering
      Optimization. Adv. Eng. Inform. 2023, 58, 102210. [CrossRef]
50.   Ezugwu, A.E.; Agushaka, J.O.; Abualigah, L.; Mirjalili, S.; Gandomi, A.H. Prairie Dog Optimization Algorithm. Neural Comput.
      Appl. 2022, 34, 20017–20065. [CrossRef]
51.   Fu, Y.F.; Liu, D.; Chen, J.D.; He, L. Secretary Bird Optimization Algorithm: A New Metaheuristic for Solving Global Optimization
      Problems. Artif. Intell. Rev. 2024, 57, 123. [CrossRef]
52.   Wolpert, D.H.; Macready, W.G. No Free Lunch Theorems for Optimization. IEEE Trans. Evol. Comput. 1997, 1, 67–82. [CrossRef]
53.   Duankhan, P.; Sunat, K.; Chiewchanwattana, S.; Nasa-ngium, P. The Differentiated Creative Search (DCS): Leveraging Differenti-
      ated Knowledge-Acquisition and Creative Realism to Address Complex Optimization Problems. Expert Syst. Appl. 2024, 252,
      123734. [CrossRef]
54.   Chermite, C.; Douiri, M.R. A Novel Hybrid Approach Combining Differentiated Creative Search with Adaptive Refinement for
      Photovoltaic Parameter Extraction. Renew. Energy 2025, 245, 122764. [CrossRef]
55.   Zhang, H.; Li, G.L.; Guo, C.Y.; Li, M.; Wang, Y.; Luo, J.H. Rapid Identification of Liubao Tea Vintage Based on Terahertz
      Spectroscopy Combined with Improved Differentiated Creative Search Algorithm. Spectrosc. Lett. 2025. online. [CrossRef]
Biomimetics 2025, 10, 260                                                                                                      41 of 41



56.   Liu, J.; Lin, Y.; Zhang, X.; Yin, J.B.; Zhang, X.L.; Feng, Y.; Qian, Q. Agricultural UAV Path Planning Based on a Differentiated
      Creative Search Algorithm with Multi-Strategy Improvement. Machines 2024, 12, 591. [CrossRef]
57.   Gao, H.; Zhang, Q.K. Alpha Evolution: An Efficient Evolutionary Algorithm with Evolution Path Adaptation and Matrix
      Generation. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2024, 137, 109202. [CrossRef]
58.   Tanabe, R.; Fukunaga, A.S. Improving the Search Performance of SHADE Using Linear Population Size Reduction. In Proceedings
      of the 2014 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, CEC, Beijing, China, 6–11 July.
59.   Li, Y.; Han, T.; Zhou, H.; Wei, Y.; Wang, Y.; Tan, M.; Huang, C. APSM-JSO: A Novel JSO Variant with an Adaptive Parameter
      Selection Mechanism and a New External Archive Updating Mechanism. Swarm Evol. Comput. 2023, 78, 101283. [CrossRef]
60.   Su, H.; Zhao, D.; Heidari, A.A.; Liu, L.; Zhang, X.; Mafarja, M.; Chen, H. RIME: A Physics-Based Optimization. Neurocomputing
      2023, 532, 183–214. [CrossRef]
61.   Otair, M.; Alhmoud, A.; Jia, H.; Altalhi, M.; Hussein, A.M.A.; Abualigah, L. Optimized Task Scheduling in Cloud Computing
      Using Improved Multi-Verse Optimizer. Comput. Clust. 2022, 25, 4221–4232. [CrossRef]
62.   Zhao, W.; Wang, L.; Zhang, Z.; Mirjalili, S.; Khodadadi, N.; Ge, Q. Quadratic Interpolation Optimization (QIO): A New
      Optimization Algorithm Based on Generalized Quadratic Interpolation and Its Applications to Real-World Engineering Problems.
      Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 2023, 417, 116446. [CrossRef]
63.   Nadimi-Shahraki, M.H.; Taghian, S.; Javaheri, D.; Sadiq, A.S.; Khodadadi, N.; Mirjalili, S. MTV-SCA: Multi-Trial Vector-Based
      Sine Cosine Algorithm. Clust. Comput. J. Netw. Softw. Tools Appl. 2024, 27, 13471–13515. [CrossRef]
64.   Zhao, W.; Zhang, Z.; Wang, L. Manta Ray Foraging Optimization: An Effective Bio-Inspired Optimizer for Engineering
      Applications. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2020, 87, 103300. [CrossRef]
65.   Yin, S.; Luo, Q.; Zhou, Y. EOSMA: An Equilibrium Optimizer Slime Mould Algorithm for Engineering Design Problems. Arab. J.
      Sci. Eng. 2022, 47, 10115–10146. [CrossRef]


Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
